The Commisison of Inquiry into State Capture is expected to resume on Monday. The commission will hear evidence from the CEO of EOH Holdings Limited, Stephen van Coller. EOH is a technology services company which has in the past secured contracts with government, including the Department of Defence. Van Coller is expected to give evidence related to the flow of money at the company. Strict protocol will be adhered to at the commission in order to limit the spread of COVID-19. Attendants in the media gallery are required to observe social distancing, which will result in a limited availability of seats. “Please be advised that there will be limited sitting for the members of the media in adherence to the COVID-19 regulations. Members of the media are encouraged to follow proceedings remotely,” says the Commission in a statement. Zuma at the Commission The Commission adjourned on Thursday after former President Jacob Zuma walked out without the permission of commission chairperson, Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo. Zondo expresses dismay after Zuma walks out of Commission without permission:  This followed Zondo’s rejection of Zuma’s request for the Deputy Chief Justice to recuse himself as the chairperson of the commission. Zondo rejected Zuma’s claims that they are friends and said his application of bias against him lacked the test of reasonable apprehension. Zuma, through his counsel, has said that he is taking Zondo’s decision on review and will also be laying a complaint with the Judicial Service Commission (JSC). “The issue of you becoming a judge in your own matter which on its own is a ground that Mr Zuma mentioned I want to say we have also been instructed to lodge a complaint about you in that regard to the Judicial Service Commission in respect of the issue about which you have made yourself a witness or a judge. So chair I have no other instruction today or anywhere in the future until we have considered the review, except we would like to be excused from these proceedings,” said Zuma’s senior counsel, advocate Muzi Sikhakhane. DCJ Raymond Zondo must act decisively following Zuma’s walkout: 