Trade Union, Broadcasting Electronic Media & Allied Workers Union (Bemawu) says it has proposed to the South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) that it offers voluntary retrenchment packages for up to 450 employees over the age of 55 and avoid retrenchments. The union has argued that job losses at the public broadcaster are avoidable. Bemawu also says the SABC will soon reach its staffing targets through attrition and there is no need to axe staff – especially during these very difficult economic times. The SABC announced in June that it could retrench as many as 600 permanent staff. Bemawu president Hannes du Buisson says, “The reason that we have proposed that is that it’s voluntary; so employees can apply. A number of employees that is around that age has requested and asked whether the SABC will not allow them to take those voluntary retrenchment packages. To the SABC if it is truly a voluntary retirement that would not cost the SABC any money.” In this video below, Labour union BEMAWU approached the Labour Court:  Section 189 process On Tuesday Bemawu said it has agreed to temporarily remove the interdict application from the urgent court roll, pending SABC undertaking to further consultation in respect of the Section 189 process. The public broadcaster has been in consultation with workers’ representatives over the past four months. This is part of its restructuring aimed at making the organisation financially sustainable. Bemawu said that should further consultation not happen, it will place the matter on the roll for the next available date and proceed with the application. Bemawu is also demanding the immediate reinstatement of all SABC employees who were dismissed at the time TV news, including anchor, Palesa Chubisi, who was pulled off air last month. Labour Court ruled on Monday that Chubisi’s dismissal was unlawful and invalid. The SABC said it had found that the group had unduly benefited from promotions and jobs. SABC, unions and the CCMA met about its planned retrenchment process: 