The African National Congress (ANC) says it hopes there will be no constitutional crisis in the United States where Donald Trump is set to challenge election results in a number of states after Democrat Joe Biden won the race for the presidency. Celebrations continued into the night after Biden and his deputy, Kamala Harris, won the poll. Biden has since vowed to unite the country. Speaking to the SABC News during a door-to-door campaign in Kagiso west of Johannesburg, ANC Secretary-General Ace Magashule said they are hopeful sanity will prevail in the US. “I don’t think there will be any constitutional crisis in the US whoever has won will win. I am sure they will declare their elections , they are a sovereign country, we respect their sovereignty and I hope that America will start realising that it’s part of the globe. They will actually ensure that they respect the sovereignty of other countries, they will deal with issues of Palestine, of Western Sahara and they will respect the sovereignty of all those countries. They will deal with Cuba as Obama did. I am sure Biden will actually have to do what Obama did during his reign.” Kamala Harris makes history as first female Vice President-elect in the USA: Congratulatory messages continue to pour in for Biden, Harris Congratulatory messages are pouring in from leaders across the globe for US President-elect Biden and US Vice- president-elect Harris. Biden’s victory in the battleground state of Pennsylvania put him over the threshold of the 270 Electoral College votes he needed to clinch the presidency, ending four days of nail-biting suspense and sending his supporters into the streets of major cities in celebration. Biden defeated incumbent President Donald Trump in the presidential election. “I will govern as an American president.  I will work as hard for those who didn’t vote for me as those who did. The refusal of Democrats and Republicans to cooperate with one another is a decision and if we decide not to cooperate then we decide to cooperate. I believe that this is part of the mandate given to us by the American people. They want us to cooperate in their interest and that is the choice I will make and I will call on Congress to make that choice with me,” said Biden while was speaking after a bitter election campaign – promising to work to unify a deeply divided country. Trump is yet to concede and has not spoken publicly since his defeat was announced. Kamala Harris will be the first female Vice President of the US and also the first female of colour to hold the position.