Former South African Airways (SAA) Board Chairperson, Dudu Myeni, has lashed out at the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture and political structures for failing to fully investigate corruption and fraud allegations against the airline’s former CEO, Coleman Andrews, and the board. Coleman was given a R200 million tax-free payment during his two and a half year tenure at the airline. Myeni says the same energy being used to investigate her role in the State Capture at SAA should be used to put Andrews’s leadership under the spotlight. She has also criticised former board members for failing to question the issue of transformation at the airline where 90% of contracts were awarded to predominately white companies and only 2%  to black businesses. “I wish that every minister or all the ministers that we reported to, took the matters of South African Airways as seriously as its being emphasised about this letter, and the same seriousness that is being emphasised today has never been the same energy and seriousness that has been demonstrated during my tenure,” says Myeni. In the video below, Myeni is testifying before the Commission:  Zondo cautions against Myeni’s silence Earlier on Thursday, Chairperson of the Commission, Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo cautioned Myeni that her decision to refuse to answer questions does not mean no finding will be made about her. Myeni has yet again refused to answer any questions, invoking her right to remain silent. However, Zondo says Myeni’s actions may impact the findings of the commission in reference to the testimony and evidence of some witnesses who have implicated her. “If a particular person or witness exercises their right not to tell their side of the story, the commission will have to deal with the matters without the benefit of that witness’s side of the story. And when it makes its report and findings, it will do so only on the basis of the evidence of those who put evidence before it and who answered questions,” says Zondo. 