Deputy President David Mabuza says women continue to face a double pandemic as they struggle to stay safe from the coronavirus as well as their violent partners. With cases of murder, rape and assault on the rise, activism groups have called on society to actively assist those being abused. Mabuza was speaking in Pretoria as South Africa observes 16 Days of Activism. “We call for the unity of purpose and commitment in tackling the fight against the twin pandemics; COVID-19 and Gender-Based Violence. We are certain that if we work together as a nation to repair the social fabric of our society, victory is guaranteed. We can now eradicate all these social ills and build a nation that is stronger and united.” 16 Days of Activism for No Violence Against Women and Children launched:  East London community take to streets to demand justice Pre-empting the national 16 Days of Activism campaign, the community of Duncan village in East London took to the streets to demand justice for victims. This, in the wake of the alleged rape of a 14-year-old boy by a 74-year-old man. March organiser, Phumeza Kwababa, says violence against women and children must stop. “In our community, we have had almost five LGBTQI that were murdered by one of the community members. So we realise that the community of Duncan village needs to be sensitised against LGBTQI. They need to understand that being gay and lesbian is not a sin because most of the people think that a gay child is not a child.” An activist against Gender-Based Violence, Dr Lesley Ann-Foster from the Masinyamanye Women’s Rights International Organisation, says all communities must tackle the issue head-on. “I think it is very inspiring that communities are engaged in issues of Gender-Based Violence and that they are actually prepared to stand up courageously against violence in their communities. They’re taking responsibility and that’s a very important part of our struggle.” The community of Duncan Village in East London take to the streets demanding justice for Gender-Based Violence victims:  North West community to picket outside court Meanwhile, in North West, residents of Madibogo-pan are expected to picket outside the Atamelang Magistrates’ Court on Wednesday ahead of the appearance of a man linked to the rape and murder of 34-year-old Petronella Mputle. Her body was found by a herd man in the bushes earlier this month. Police spokesperson Colonel Adele Myburgh says 30-year-old Thabang Lesole was last seen with the victim. “Police and community members then traced Lesole and they went to Vrisgewacht near Atamelang and then he was arrested on Saturday 21 November.  He appeared at the Atamelang Magistrate’s Court on Monday on charges of murder and rape and the second court appearance will be 25 November where he is expected to apply for bail.” – Additional reporting by Amanda Xhala, Sylvester Serame