This story contains graphic information that could upset some readers. KwaZulu-Natal MEC for Social Development Nonhlanhla Khoza says the murder of a three-year-old child near Estcourt at the weekend was barbaric and inhuman. Police say the child went missing on Thursday while his grandmother was at work. The child’s body was found in bushes in the Thembalihle area after he went missing. It is alleged that there was a nail in his skull and that some body parts were removed. The child was last seen with his father. Khoza says the courts must make an example of whoever is found guilty of the murder. “It is one of those things we have never thought of as a person; killing a person and putting a nail in his head. We had never thought that at this point in time anyone can do that. Recently we just had a gathering with traditional healers and traditional leaders, the traditional healers said that one should not be called a healer, but that one is practicing witchcraft. So we urge our communities, that we need to stand up, we cannot allow this to happen.” Meanwhile, a 36-year-old man has been arrested for the brutal murder of the three-year-old child. Police spokesperson, Nqobile Gwala: “When the grandmother returned from work, she noticed that the child was not at home. The suspect was questioned about the whereabouts of the child but he became violent. That is when the family members decided to search for the missing child. The child was found in the bushes with a nail inserted into his skull and mutilated. The police were immediately alerted and responded to the scene. A 36-year-old man was then placed under arrest for murder. The missing body parts were found inside the suspects’ house.” #sapsKZN A 36-year-old man is expected to appear before the Estcourt Magistrate’s Court tomorrow for the brutal murder of a 3-year-old child. The suspect was arrested on Friday following the discovery of the child’s body in the bushes. #ActAgainstAbuse MLhttps://t.co/1XBtRcqBH6 pic.twitter.com/ClReScrrjG — SA Police Service  (@SAPoliceService) November 29, 2020 