Economist Jeff Schultz says it will take several years for the local economy to recoup employment losses triggered by the impact of the coronavirus pandemic. Figures released by Statistics SA on Thursday show that the country’s unemployment rate jumped from 23.3% to 30.8% in the third quarter. South Africa’s unemployment rate increased by 7.5 percentage points in the third quarter of the year compared with the second quarter. This is the highest unemployment rate recorded since 2008. The sectors that lost most jobs were electricity, water and transport while finance, private household and constructions created some jobs. SA’s unemployment rate increased to 30.8% in the third quarter:  According to Stats SA, the results indicate that the number of employed persons increased by 543 000 to 14.7 million in the third quarter of 2020, and the number of unemployed persons increased by 2.2 million to 6.5 million compared to the second quarter of 2020. This resulted in an increase of 2.8 million in the number of people in the labour force. Stats SA says in spite of the increase in the number of discouraged work-seekers is up by 9.1%, the number of people who were not economically active for reasons other than discouragement decreased by 2.9 million between the two quarters, resulting in a net decrease of 2.6 million in the not economically active population. Schultz says the numbers reflect the current poor state of the economy. “It highlights that the labour market is under pressure alongside the economy which will take many years to recoup the losses that it has experienced this year. Challenging times ahead for the SA consumers and more reason to get the policy right so that we get the economy growing again and ultimately becoming labour absorbent.” Stats SA releases the latest Quarterly Labour Force Survey:  Infographic on unemployment stats: 2019 2020 UNEMPLOYMENT The country’s unemployment rate was recorded at 27.6% in the first quarter of this year, up from 27.1% in the fourth quarter of 2018. Stats SA says the country’s official unemployment rate has jumped to 29% in the second quarter of the year. Stats SA has announced that the official unemployment rate has increased by 1.0 percentage point to 30.1% in the first quarter of 2020.  Statistics SA says 2.2 million jobs were lost in South Africa in the second quarter of 2020.  First Quarter Second Quarter vs SA UNEMPLOYMENT FIGURES 2019/2020 23.3% 30.1% 27.6% 29% UNEMPLOYMENT RATE UNEMPLOYMENT RATE UNEMPLOYMENT RATE UNEMPLOYMENT RATE The figures Statistics South Africa has released for the third quarter show that it has risen to 29.1% – the highest level in 11 years. SA’s Unemployment rate remained unchanged at 29.1% in the fourth-quarter of 2019. Working from home has its own costs. In addition to broadband internet costs, employees need to think about their energy costs like electricity. Typical work-at-home expenses include desks, chairs, network routers, and monitors.  The nature of working remotely doesn’t make it inviting to chat with coworkers. Needless to say, productivity can get a huge uptick with remote workers. Consistent research has shown that remote workers log longer hours than their office-bound counterparts.  SA’s unemployment rate increased by 7.5% points to 30.8% in the third quarter. This is the highest unemployment rate recorded since in 2008. When working at an office, you pay for the costs of commuting, such as public transit, gas, or maintenance expenses. If you’re driving, you might also have to pay for parking. You likely also pick up a coffee or buy lunch during the day. All of these expenses add up. A study conducted found that a typical office worker is interrupted every If that wasn’t bad enough, it takes 11 minutes 25 minutes to get back on task. Yikes. Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Productivity 30.8% ? 29.1% UNEMPLOYMENT RATE UNEMPLOYMENT RATE 29.1% UNEMPLOYMENT RATE Source: StatsSA As a manager, you might have the desire to micromanage employees as they go remote. Instead, we suggest trusting people to perform until they prove otherwise. Employees want to do well; it’s your job to help them get there. When working from an office, managers have a clear view of what team members are working on. They can go up and ask questions, have daily check-ins, and have whiteboarding meetings to make sure everything is on track. Management (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); 