African National Congress (ANC) president Cyril Ramaphosa says members need to stop treating the party as a cash cow. Ramaphosa was addressing ANC members in Rustenburg, North West, on Monday. The party’s National Working Committee descended on the province to address a number of issues ahead of the Branch, Regional and Provincial Conferences. The party president was accompanied by National Working Committee members Nomvula Mokonyane, Jeff Radebe, Snuki Zikalala, Malusi Gigaba, Obed Bapela and Sibongile Besani. Delegates from the Bojanala Region also attended the meeting to discuss issues pertaining to the organisation and to also prepare for the branch and regional conferences. Ramaphosa has urged members of the party to unite and focus on changing the lives of ordinary people, and not personal ambitions. “…It is this that the ANC must focus attention on rather than continuing the squabbles amongst us. The fighting for positions, the fighting for material benefits. Financial benefits must end comrades. We must become a united African National Congress prepared and willing to serve the people of our country,” says Ramaphosa. Electronic systems to register members Ramaphosa went further to say that the party has resolved to using electronic systems to register members to avoid duplication of registrations. “We must implement a new membership system and that is part of renewal so that we can get rid of tendencies which we have had in the past, where members join other members, where there is a lot of funny things that had happened, buying of members, buying of membership cards, bulk buying and all that. That is part of the renewal process that is aimed at strengthening the African National Congress,” says Ramaphosa. Meanwhile, other ANC supporters gathered outside, singing slogans and demanding an address by president Ramaphosa. “As much as we can be the messenger but the people are here, representing the branches and they want to see the president. So, we are just saying let the president come out of the meeting and address the masses,” says one supporter. “We are with the president. We are not going to fight the president. Even our respect for him, it will grow if we see the president. We are gathered here for the president,” says another. The IPC in the North West is expected to conclude its term in January after the provincial conference. ANC President Ramaphosa to lead NEC visit to the North West 