The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) in Limpopo has given tomato producer, ZZ2, 21 days to respond to its memorandum that demands improved working and living conditions for the company’s farm workers. The party together with hundreds of farm workers today marched to the farmer’s headquarters in Moeketsi, outside Modjadjisklood, following reports of alleged racism and worker exploitation. It was a songful march of about 600 metres from the Moeketsi Informal Settlement to ZZ2’s offices. Hundreds of farm workers and villager were bussed from various areas to partake in the demonstration. Marchers allege that the tomato producer mistreats his workers. They allege over 60% of the company’s workforce is foreign nationals, whom they allege are exploited. [IN LIMPOPO TODAY] Commissar @HhMkhaliphi and EFF Provincial Chairperson @JosseyButhane led a march to ZZ2 today, against racism and exploitation of workers. All Provinces and Regions have also established labour desks, we call on people to report any labour-related matters. pic.twitter.com/a3D9L5qFPq — Economic Freedom Fighters (@EFFSouthAfrica) November 27, 2020  They also accuse ZZ2 of paying workers salaries that are below the country’s minimum wage. The party’s provincial deputy chairperson, Cedric Seshoka, says they also want an account of land ownership and rentals by the company. “It is our demand that ZZ2, Betty Van Zyl must stop separating our workers according to their race particularly at residential place, work place, salaries or wages, leave entitlement, shift patterns and position of responsibilities. ZZ2, Betty Van Zyl must stop forcing Black employees to sleep in six or 10 in one room whereas White employees are provided decent accommodation such as a house for themselves and their families.” The company’s Security Manager, Marius Botha, accepted the EFF’s memorandum and promised to hand it over to the company’s directors. “We have taken note of the memorandum, we will sign it on behalf of the company. We will hand it over to the senior management for them to make acknowledgement and pay attention to it. Thank you.” The red berets have threatened to stage a bigger protest should ZZ2 not get back to them within the stipulated 21 days. In the video below, EFF marches to tomato producer, ZZ2:  