Some matric learners at Spes Bona High School in Athlone on the Cape Flats say the fear of contracting the coronavirus has increased the pressure they feel as they make final preparations for their exams. The class of 2020 will start their matric exams in earnest on Thursday. Over 95 000 learners will write their National Senior Certificate examinations in the Western Cape. This year’s matric class will make history by writing their finals in the midst of a global pandemic. A learner at Spes Bona High School says: “It’s been a roller coaster, to say the least, but we are coping. It’s been difficult, I won’t lie. Our marks have downgraded a lot, but ja, God’s in control.” Another learner says: “Most of the matriculcants here feel pressured into passing and we can’t really focus on passing if we have to come to school fearful of getting sick or something.” COVID-19 guidelines for matric learners The Department of Basic Education has issued the following COVID-19 guidelines for matric learners: MATRIC LEARNERS WHO TEST POSITIVE FOR CODID-19 COVID-19 tests are administered at local clinics and pharmacies. This is managed by the Department of Health. Schools do not administer COVID-19 tests, they only screen for temperature. pic.twitter.com/QFLrBdYYkx — Dep. Basic Education (@DBE_SA) November 3, 2020  It is a learner’s responsibility to report concerning symptoms to the school authorities in time and to present themselves for testing. Failure to report a positive COVID-19 diagnosis to the school while writing exams is an offence that carries legal consequences. pic.twitter.com/pPbG7b6JYt — Dep. Basic Education (@DBE_SA) November 3, 2020  If you cannot write or complete your 2020 examinations because of a positive COVID-19 diagnosis you have an opportunity to write in May/June 2021. The May/June examination will be open for anyone to write selected subjects or all subjects pic.twitter.com/cOXBlmIM2s — Dep. Basic Education (@DBE_SA) November 3, 2020  All systems go for exams The Department of Basic Education says it is ready and on track for the 2020 matric exams. Over one million South African learners will sit down to write their Grade 12 finals. The department has had to combine the June and November exams, given the coronavirus and subsequent lockdown. They say that despite the pandemic, learners will write under the most conducive conditions possible, as Basic Education Spokesperson Elijah Mhlanga explains:  -Additional reporting by SABC News