The Democratic challenger in the United States Presidential election, Joe Biden, says that he and his running mate, Kamala Harris, are preparing to put in place a plan to slow the spread of the coronavirus once they take office. Biden has voiced strong confidence that he has won the presidential race against Donald Trump, with poll numbers suggesting he has a strong lead in key battleground states. Joe Biden edges closer to winning:  Counting continues as Donald Trump threatens litigation over results:  Trump has been widely criticised for the US having recorded the most COVID-19 cases in the world; of 9.7 million infections since the start of the pandemic. Biden, speaking in a television address in Delaware, says the country risks a spike of 200 000 cases in a single day. “Daily cases are skyrocketing. We now believe we could see a spike of 200 000 cases in a single day. The death toll is approaching 240 000 lives lost to this virus. I want everyone to know that on day one, we are going to put our plan to control this virus into action. Senator Harris and I heard yesterday about how this recovery is slowing because of the failure to get the virus under control. More than 20 million people are unemployed, millions are worried about making rent and putting food on the table. Our economic plan will put a focus on the path to a strong recovery.” Strengthening the economy Biden, says as the vote-counting process comes to a close, he and Harris are already meeting with experts to develop a plan to strengthen the economy amid the COVID-19 pandemic. Biden has voiced strong confidence that he has won the presidential race against Trump. He has pulled ahead of the Republican leader in Pennsylvania, a key state in the presidential race. He has also edged ahead of Trump in Georgia, another important battleground state, where a recount will now be held. Biden says they need to get the pandemic under control. “While we are waiting for the final results, I want people to know that we are not waiting to get the work done. Yesterday, Senator Harris and I held meetings with groups of experts on public health and the economic crisis this country is facing. This pandemic is getting worse across the country; daily cases are skyrocketing. I want everyone to know on day one, we are going to put our plan into action because we need to get the pandemic under control. More than 20 million people are unemployed, millions are worried about making rent and putting food on the table. Our economic plan will put a focus on the path to a strong recovery.” Ambassadors Welile Nhlapo and Charles R. Stith on the challenges of repairing America’s image: 