Some Grade 12 learners in rural schools in the North West say they face tremendous challenges that are not only related to the COVID-19 pandemic. Despite this, they are optimistic that they will perform well in the upcoming final examinations. More than 38 000 North West matric learners are expected to sit for this year’s examinations. Learners at Seleje Secondary School in Madibe-a-Makgabane village near Mahikeng in the North West are hard at work preparing for their last examinations. 19-year-old Kaone Modibedi is amongst the top-performing learners in the school. He says after his mother lost her job last year, they have been spending days without electricity and food. This will, however, not deter him from doing well during the exams. “I know that I’m from the village and I can use candles if I don’t have electricity at home. Sometimes, I sleep on an empty stomach. I have the confidence that I’m going to make it by the end of the year and I will be one of the best students in the North West.” His classmates are equally confident. “Sometimes, we had to look for information from the internet, so if you didn’t have data it would be a problem. But now I can tell you that despite all those challenges, I’m ready for my exams.” The Department of Education in North West says several schools faced some difficulties including vandalism and the torching of infrastructure. “There was some burning of schools like in the area of Moruleng. Four schools in that area were burnt. But fortunately, as the department, we managed to intervene on time. We sent subject specialists in different schools and also teachers have been attending throughout,” says department Spokesperson Elias Malindi. The National Association of School Governing Body says efforts made by role-players in the education sector should not be taken for granted.  The association says teachers, parents, and the department have done a sterling job in defeating the psychological, emotional challenges posed by the pandemic. Grade 12 learners are expected to start with their final examination on Thursday. Matric learners across the country prepare for exams:    