The bail application of five suspects who allegedly murdered two businesswomen has been adjourned to next week Tuesday in the Polokwane Magistrate’s court. 35-year-old Tebogo Mphuti and 46-year-old Makoena Mabusela-Leshabane were gunned down execution style while sitting in their car at an industrial site in Polokwane last month. The suspects, who include Makoena’s husband Stanley Leshabane, have been applying for a bail since last month. A psychologist from the police service has given evidence on the psychological report of the man arrested for the alleged murder of the two businesswomen.  The psychologist told the court that the report prepared by Elmarie Pieterse omittited crucial information about the behaviour and the relationship between Leshabane and his wife. She said Leshabane, who was arrested in hospital after an attempt to commit suicide, had depression because he once took sleeping tablets and drove his car. She added that Leshabane was unfaithful to his spouse. The suspects have been remanded in custody until their next court appearance on Tuesday. The State prosecutor requested that the matter be postponed for the state to get a witness who has more evidence about Leshabane. Women’s rights organisation, Hugh-Tag justice for Mokoena and Ted was established immediately after the killing of the two businesswomen. Caroline Thema, who represents Hugh-Tag Justice for Mokoena and Ted has also testified giving reasons for them opposing bail. She says more than eleven thousand people have signed a petition to oppose bail. “We are saying no bail for the five perpetrators. We are saying everyone is against what is being done. We are saying we don’t want people to get bail when they do gender- based-violence we had a petition for Hugh-Tag justice for mass and we had our target. Our initial target was significant of 1 000, we have 11 024 people who signed the petition as of today.” A group of people, mainly women, were protesting outside court, opposing bail. The four other suspects are Ndondo Buthelezi, Richard Zulu, Sfisio Phigose and Emmanuel Dlamini.