Western Cape Premier Alan Winde has called on members of the public to take extra precautions against the coronavirus. He was speaking a digital briefing on COVID-19. National government has made a similar call, urging South Africans to continue wearing masks, practicing social distancing and hand washing. Winde says the number of new infections has risen by at least 52% week-by-week in November. He says the trend will lead to another hard lockdown if it continues. “We classify resurgence when there’s more than a 20% increase in cases week on week and it’s way above week on week. It’s now sitting at 52.1 increase in cases week on week so we have established community transmissions and quite frankly these numbers continue to climb we need citizens to really clamp down and flatten this curve, we have done it once before.” SA records over 3 000 new COVID cases South Africa has recorded 3 250 new coronavirus cases, taking the total number of cases to date to 775 502. The country has also recorded 118 new COVID-19 related fatalities on Wednesday. In a statement, Health Minister Dr Zweli Mkhize says most of the new deaths were recorded in the Eastern Cape. “Regrettably, we report 118 more COVID-19 related deaths: 51 from Eastern Cape, 24 from the Free State, 7 from Gauteng, 2 from KwaZulu-Natal, 4 from Limpopo and 30 from the Western Cape,” says Dr Mkhize. This brings the total number of deaths to 21 201. The cumulative number of tests conducted to date is 5 355 068. #COVID19 Statistics in SA as at 25 November. Use the COVID Alert SA app to protect yourself, your loved ones and your community. Start using this privacy preserving app today. Add your phone to the fight! Download the Covid Alert SA app now! https://t.co/8YKEqaiiRF pic.twitter.com/L5bKMh8tcs — Dr Zweli Mkhize (@DrZweliMkhize) November 25, 2020  Mkhize to visit Eastern Cape Mkhize, who is expected to visit the Eastern Cape today,  says the province is responsible for up to 55-percent of the daily increase in coronavirus infections. Some observers say the Eastern Cape is already experiencing a second wave of the coronavirus. Mkhize appeared before a joint meeting of Parliament’s portfolio committees of Health and Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities. Mkhize was responding to questions from MPs about the increase in COVID-19 infections.