Police have opened an inquest docket in the death of KwaZulu-Natal ANC provincial executive member Mluleki Ndobe. Police confirmed the death of Ndobe who allegedly shot himself. Police spokesperson Thembeka Mbele says Ndobe was with his family in the living room late on Friday night when the incident occurred. “An inquest docket has been opened for investigation at Umbilo Police Station. This us after an incident that took place where a 46-year-old man was at his house at 56 Dan Pienaar Road in Umbilo yesterday at about 11 at night. According to the witness, he shot himself whilst seated with the family in the lounge and when the wife came back from the kitchen, she noticed that he was already dead. At the moment, the inquest docket is under investigation.” ANC KZN Deputy Provincial Secretary Mluleki Ndobe has passed away:  Ndobe, who was known as “the Black Mamba” among ANC KZN members, had been in and out of hospital battling cancer. Charges against him were withdrawn in March 2019 following the killing of former ANC Youth League Secretary-General, Sindiso Magaqa. Ndobe was a former Mayor of the Harry Gwala District Municipality and Deputy Speaker of the legislature. Charges against Mluleki Ndobe for the murder of Sindiso Magaqa dropped:  Condolences The ANC in KZN has expressed its deep sadness following Ndobe’s untimely death. ANC spokesperson Nhlankanipho Ntombela says the provincial leadership will visit the family. “The ANC in Kwazulu-Natal is shocked and saddened by the news of the passing on of comrade Mluleki Ndobe, who was the deputy speaker in the Provincial Legislature. We got the news of his passing on yesterday late in the evening after 11 at night. He was suffering from cancer. He was even out of hospital because of that situation. We are still not sure of the issues around his death exactly as there are speculations around it. We will be going to the family to get the details of what exactly transpired, but we can indeed confirm that he is no more.” The IFP has sent its condolences following Ndobe’s death. IFP President Velenkosini Hlabisa Ndobe’s death is a great loss to the provincial legislature. “On behalf of the IFP caucus, I convey our deepest sympathy and condolences for the passing on of deputy speaker honourable Mluleki Ndobe. We give pour condolences to the family and the ANC as his political party. Honourable Ndobe was one of the few with highest qualities of leadership and in terms of maturity. Whenever he was chairing the meetings of the legislature, he would demonstrate fairness and respect for other people’s views. The loss of Ndobe is a loss to all of us as the people of KZN and the people of South Africa. May his soul rest in peace.”