The midday current affairs shows on SABC’s Ukhozi FM have been cancelled due to the strike by SABC employees facing retrenchments. The station had to cancel Ezisematheni shows yesterday and today due to a shortage of staff. Members of the Communication Workers’ Union (CWU) are demanding the withdrawal of letters the SABC issued last week to workers whose positions have been declared redundant. The SABC plans to retrench 400 workers by the end of the year. Unions at the SABC say they are anxiously waiting to hear Communications Minister Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams expected announcement today on possibly averting the looming retrenchments at the public broadcaster. This follows Ndabeni-Abrahams’ meeting with Labour Minister Thulas Nxesi, unions and the SABC board yesterday. However, the CWU says it will continue with lunch-time pickets while the Broadcasting, Electronic, Media and Allied Workers’ Union (BEMAWU) has vowed to proceed with seeking an urgent interdict from the Labour Court. SABC workers anxiously awaiting Ndabeni-Abrahams announcement:  SABC management awaiting direction from the board On Monday, SABC management said it will wait for direction from the board after it halted the retrenchment processes for seven days at the public broadcaster last week. There has been a public outcry from all sectors and employees belonging to Communications Workers’ Union (CWU) have embarked on a strike. Letters were issued to staff informing them that their positions are either redundant or that they are considered surplus and have to reapply for their jobs. The CWU is demanding among others that the current board be dissolved and for the SABC to be placed under administration. SABC human resources head, Dr Mojaki Mosia says: “The board has announced that they are putting the Section 189 on suspension for a period of seven days. That simply means we will wait as management for a directive from the board on what should be the next step. Management is working as per the resolution and the direction of the board.