A 35-year-old victim of Gender-Based Violence (GBV)  from Mthatha in the Eastern Cape has appealed to government to build her a house. Siphokazi Mjamba was assaulted and burnt with paraffin by her ex-boyfriend 10 years ago. She sustained severe burn wounds that resulted in the amputation of her fingers. The alleged perpetrator hasn’t been brought to book yet. The Safety Department in the Eastern Cape has piloted a Court Watch Brief programme, which looks to fast-track and prioritise Gender-Based Violence cases.  More than a decade after her ordeal Mjamba, a mother of three, still lives in fear in her rented one-bedroomed flat. Mjamba says she’s been left incapacitated, traumatised and homeless. “He beat me up, locked me up, burnt me. His friend heard me crying. He lied and said I burnt myself. I am abusing my kids due to my anger issues. My life is impacted very badly because I am incapacitated and I cannot work anywhere anymore. If I speak my voice is always drowned, no one takes me seriously.” In the video below, Siphokazi shares her story:  During the launch of the Safety and Security Month in October, the Court Watch Brief Program was unveiled. Safety MEC, Weziwe Tikana, says the programme seeks to fast-track justice for victims of Gender-Based Violence (GBV). “We have a number of cases that have been enrolled. We will expand the program by opening a toll free number where people will lodge their complaints and register. The Court Watch Brief Program in Ngcobo was a pilot which has been successful. This will help us to track cases because people have lodged complaints that some cases where deregistered.” Mjamba’s only wish is to get a decent house. The Human Settlements Department has promised to look into the matter. Spokesperson, Masiza Mazizi, says they are looking at providing temporary relief for the victim. “We are sorry to Miss Mjamba for this unfortunate incident. Government condemns Gender-Based Violence. MEC Nonkqubela Peters has sent a team to do an assessment on Siphokazi. A temporary structure will be built while we look for permanent solutions.” The recently-released 2019/20 crime statistics indicate that close to 23 000 cases of common assault by a boyfriend/girlfriend, ex-partner or a spouse were reported. #sapsHQ Release of the Second Quarter Crime Statistics 2020/2021 available on the #SAPS website via this link. #CrimeStats MEhttps://t.co/qa7Wj3eE9S pic.twitter.com/pbj7zAsLOD — SA Police Service  (@SAPoliceService) November 13, 2020  In this video below, men are called to join the fight against gender-based violence: 