Bonginkosi Madikizela has been re-elected as the DA Western Cape’s provincial leader. The party says in a statement that his deputy is Albert Fritz. Madikizela was up against Masizole Mnqasela and Wendy Philander. Several other positions were also being contested. Delegates elected Jaco Londt as the DA’s provincial chair. BREAKING The newly elected DA Western Cape Leadership is: pic.twitter.com/ozacCRBvsA — DA Western Cape (@WesternCapeDA) November 21, 2020  Around 1 000 delegates voted either via their personal devices or from designated venues for the party’s new provincial leader. Earlier, Madikizela called on the party’s members to unite behind its newly elected provincial leaders. Madikizela has called on DA members to put their differences aside and work towards uniting the party. “We don’t have to agree on every issue, we don’t even have to like each other, but we must never forget what brought us together as a DA family. We share a common vision to build a better South Africa, which must be governed by our values and principles. After this Congress, we will need to refocus our attention to our voters and improve on service delivery where we are in government.” ANC accuses Zille of taking sides The ANC in the Western Cape says DA Federal Chairperson, Helen Zille, has taken sides in the provincial leadership battle in the DA. This comes after Madikizela was exonerated by the party’s federal legal commission of allegations of him plotting to assassinate one of his competitors, Mnqasela. ANC leader in the Provincial Legislature, Cameron Dugmore, says it is the police’s responsibility to investigate whether the whistle-blower is genuine or not. “Here we have a DA kangaroo court deciding that the whistle-blower is not genuine and also casting aspersions against Masizole Mnqasela, one of the contenders, and giving a slight slap on the wrist for MEC Bonginkosi Madikizela. Helen Zille has a history of interfering in provincial leadership battles and this is what is contributing to the infighting.” Meanwhile, the DA’s North West members also held their elective conference on Saturday. Leon Basson was elected unopposed as the party leader in the province. North West members react to Leon Basson’s election: 