A 42-year-old woman and her five children aged between six months and 10-years-old have been found murdered at their home in Dabekweni near Mqanduli in the Eastern Cape. The police were alerted by neighbours who suspected something bad had happened at the home of the deceased. On arrival, police found the six bodies in a pool of blood. Provincial Police Commissioner  Lieutenant General Liziwe Ntshinga says it is inconceivable that this horrible crime happened on the opening day of 16 Days of Activism. Police spokesperson Tembinkosi Kinana says the deceased were all hacked to death with an axe that was also found at the crime scene. He says the motive behind the gruesome killing is investigated and are calling for assistance in finding the perpetrators. “Six murder cases have been registered for investigation.  A man believed to be a husband to the deceased mother has disappeared without any trace at the moment. We are therefore requesting community assistance in finding the husband whom we believe is in a position to assist police investigation into the incident. Any information received will be treated with strict confidentiality.” #SAYIT Campaign launched to support victims of GBV Earlier in November, a campaign to support women and young girls who are victims of violence was launched in Nelson Mandela Bay in the Eastern Cape. The #SAYIT Campaign aims to provide adolescent girls and young women with a basket of services that will enhance their health, psycho-social and socio-economic wellbeing. They will be able to access these services at a designated site. Similar projects are already operating in the Free State, Limpopo and one other site in the Eastern Cape in Nyandeni. Launch of the campaign:  Women facing a double pandemic Yesterday, Deputy President David Mabuza said women continue to face a double pandemic as they struggle to stay safe from the coronavirus as well as their violent partners. With cases of murder, rape and assault on the rise, activism groups have called on society to actively assist those being abused. Mabuza was speaking in Pretoria as South Africa observes 16 Days of Activism. “We call for the unity of purpose and commitment in tackling the fight against the twin pandemics; COVID-19 and Gender-Based Violence. We are certain that if we work together as a nation to repair the social fabric of our society, victory is guaranteed. We can now eradicate all these social ills and build a nation that is stronger and united.”