A judge in Michigan has tossed out a lawsuit brought by US President Donald Trump’s campaign in hopes of halting vote-counting in the battleground state. Trump’s Democratic challenger Joe Biden is the projected winner in Michigan, which Trump, a Republican, carried in 2016. Michigan Court of Claims Judge Cynthia Stephens made the ruling during a court hearing on Thursday. She said she planned to issue a written ruling on Friday. “I have no basis to find that there is a substantial likelihood of success on the merits,” Stephens said. Campaign officials for Trump have said they filed the suit to stop the counting in Michigan and gain greater access to the tabulation process. The lawsuit was a “messaging exercise,” said Bob Bauer, senior advisor on Biden’s campaign. “It has no other purpose than to confuse the public about what’s taking place and to support their baseless claims of irregularity,” Bauer said in a call with reporters. Nationally, Biden inched closer to victory on Thursday in an exceedingly close U.S. election hinging on razor-thin margins in a handful of states. Trump has launched a flurry of lawsuits across the country. In another setback for Trump on Thursday, a judge in Georgia denied a request by his campaign for an order requiring Chatham County to separate and secure late-arriving ballots to ensure they are not counted. A Trump campaign spokeswoman did not immediately respond to requests for comment on the Georgia and Michigan rulings. All US election’s videos:  Legal fight with Nevada lawsuit Donald Trump‘s campaign said it would ramp up legal efforts to challenge vote counts in closely-contested states in the US election on Thursday, and said it would file a lawsuit alleging voter fraud in Nevada, which is still counting ballots. In Las Vegas, Trump allies alleged, without evidence, that there had been voting irregularities in populous Clark County, which includes the city. Democratic challenger Joe Biden has a small lead in Nevada. “We believe that there are dead voters that have been counted. We are also confident that there are thousands of people whose votes have been counted that have moved out of Clark County during the pandemic,” former Nevada Attorney General Adam Laxalt, a Republican, told reporters. He and other Trump campaign surrogates present, including former administration official Richard Grenell, gave no evidence to support their allegations and refused to answer questions from reporters. Laxalt said a lawsuit would be filed in federal court to ask the judge to “stop the counting of improper votes.”
Bob Bauer, a senior advisor to Biden’s campaign, called the various Trump lawsuits “meritless” and designed to undermine the integrity of the electoral process. “They are intended to give the Trump campaign the opportunity to argue the vote count should stop. It is not going to stop, “he told reporters on Thursday. Nevada is one of a handful of battleground states that could decide the presidency and has yet to be called after Tuesday’s vote. Election legal experts have said Trump’s legal strategy is unlikely to have a decisive impact on the outcome of the election. Trump has repeatedly said that he expects the U.S. Supreme Court, which has a 6-3 conservative majority including three justices he appointed, to have a key role. But it is unlikely the court would have the final word in any decisive way and any challenge would have to make its way through the usual court process, legal experts say. In Pennsylvania, where Trump is narrowly leading but Biden is making gains, the Trump campaign and other Republicans have already filed various legal challenges. An appeals court in Pennsylvania on Thursday ordered that Trump campaign officials be allowed to more closely observe ballot processing in Philadelphia. The campaign on Wednesday also filed lawsuits in Michigan and Georgia. A judge dismissed the Georgia lawsuit on Thursday.