Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Sunday congratulated US president-elect Joe Biden after his election win saying he looked forward to working together with the new administration and strengthening the two countries’ alliance. Congratulations @JoeBiden and @KamalaHarris. Joe, we’ve had a long & warm personal relationship for nearly 40 years, and I know you as a great friend of Israel. I look forward to working with both of you to further strengthen the special alliance between the U.S. and Israel. — PM of Israel (@IsraeliPM) Congratulations @JoeBiden on your spectacular victory! As the VP, your contribution to strengthening Indo-US relations was critical and invaluable. I look forward to working closely together once again to take India-US relations to greater heights. pic.twitter.com/yAOCEcs9bN — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) November 7, 2020 02968326144?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw”>November 8, 2020  Thank you @realDonaldTrump for the friendship you have shown the state of Israel and me personally, for recognizing Jerusalem and the Golan, for standing up to Iran, for the historic peace accords and for bringing the American-Israeli alliance to unprecedented heights. — PM of Israel (@IsraeliPM) November 8, 2020  Netanyahu’s message came hours after many world leaders and some Israeli ministers had congratulated Democrat Biden, even as Trump refused to concede and pressed ahead with legal fights against the outcome. The right-wing Netanyahu’s particularly close ties with Trump followed an acrimonious relationship with his predecessor Barack Obama, which some critics have said had alienated Democrats and compromised US bipartisan support for Israel. Friction between Netanyahu and the new administration could arise given Biden’s pledge to restore US involvement in the Iran nuclear deal and a likely opposition by the White House to Israeli settlement of occupied land where Palestinians seek statehood. Having been in lockstep with Trump for the past four years, Netanyahu could face policy whiplash – although it may be delayed by the incoming Biden administration’s need to deal first with the COVID-19 crisis and US economic woes. Biden and Harris give victory speeches  Congratulatory messages Various world leaders have tweeted their messages of congratulations to Biden and Harris. Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi Congratulations @JoeBiden on your spectacular victory! As the VP, your contribution to strengthening Indo-US relations was critical and invaluable. I look forward to working closely together once again to take India-US relations to greater heights. pic.twitter.com/yAOCEcs9bN — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) November 7, 2020  Heartiest congratulations @KamalaHarris! Your success is pathbreaking, and a matter of immense pride not just for your chittis, but also for all Indian-Americans. I am confident that the vibrant India-US ties will get even stronger with your support and leadership. — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) November 7, 2020  European Union Commission President Ursula von der Leyen I warmly congratulate @JoeBiden and @KamalaHarris for their victory in the U.S. Presidential elections. The EU and the USA are friends and allies, our citizens share the deepest of links. I look forward to working with President-elect Biden. — Ursula von der Leyen (@vonderleyen) November 7, 2020  Iraq Prime Minister Mustafa Al-Kadhimi Congratulations to President-Elect @JoeBiden and Vice President-Elect @KamalaHarris. I look forward to working with you on strengthening the strategic ties that bind Iraq and the United States, building on common values between our nations to overcome challenges together. — Mustafa Al-Kadhimi مصطفى الكاظمي (@MAKadhimi) November 7, 2020 