Civil rights organisation AfriForum says it will be monitoring the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) regarding the decisions it takes against Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader Julius Malema for inciting violence against police officers. AfriForum and trade union Solidarity have jointly lodged criminal charges at the Lyttelton police station against Malema. The organisations say they were approached by at least 1 000 police officers with concerns over the threatening remarks made by Malema recently. While addressing his supporters over the weekend, Malema encouraged violence, accusing the police of using unnecessary force at Brackenfell in Cape Town last week. “Police who shot at the EFF members in Brackenfell in Cape Town used unnecessary force at close range against our members. We will continue to fight racism wherever it emerges in the country. Racism is violence and must be responded to with violence. Racists will be pushed out of the country until they have nowhere to run to.” EFF Official Account – live via https://t.co/j8Gi45nu8F https://t.co/ZJEUwwNElr — Economic Freedom Fighters (@EFFSouthAfrica) November 22, 2020  The party held an anti-racism march leading to a scuffle, with police using stun grenades and water cannon to disperse the crowd. AfriForum says its private prosecution unit will monitor the case and if Malema is not prosecuted by the NPA, their own prosecution unit will prosecute him privately. Meanwhile, Police Minister Bheki Cele says police will defend themselves against any attacks, strongly condemning statements from EFF leader Malema. Cele says Malema’s statements were reckless and irresponsible. “He has really crossed the line. You are not going to threaten the police and think they will just fold their arms and sit back. Their job is prescribed in the constitution, which is to protect, prevent, investigate, uphold the law and enforce the law. So, nobody has the right to threaten the police. The police will defend themselves and we call on them to defend themselves. This is such an irresponsible statement.” FF leader Julius Malema addresses Mohokare municipality: 