Trade union Numsa has called on the African National Congress (ANC) to adopt a firmer stance against gender-based violence and femicide, as the country marks the 16 Days of Activism for No Violence Against Women and Children campaign. The ANC in Mpumalanga on Friday rescinded its decision to reinstate a member of the Provincial Executive Committee accused of raping two minors following public outrage. The former MEC and his stepson are currently out on bail of R20 000 each. Numsa spokesperson Phakamile Hlubi-Majola says although they welcome the move, the ANC’s initial decision shows that it does not take the issue seriously. “We have a crisis of gender-based violence in this country. And the reason, that it is so bad, is because South African society generally does not want to accept that they have a problem with equality of men and women. And when you have a situation where a man has been accused of rape the response from the political organisation is to reinstate him the message that sends to the victims is that it doesn’t matter what you say, had bail been denied in this instance we believe it would have gone much further in protecting these children and protecting the community at large.” Numsa slams ANC Mpumalanga’s decision to reinstate rape accused PEC member:  ANCWL demands member to step down Earlier, the ANC Women’s League (ANCWL) demanded that the member of the Mpumalanga Provincial Executive Committee immediately step down from his position or be suspended by the national leadership. The Women’s League Secretary-General Meokgo Matuba says the ANC must lead by example in the fight against GBV and femicide. “Whilst we believe in the principle of innocent until proven guilty, we are demanding answers from the PEC also to engage the leadership of the ANC at NEC level through the office of the secretary-general to definitely give us answers. We feel that South Africa is a war zone for women and therefore his matter must be taken seriously. The alleged perpetrator must step down if he’s not doing that the ANC at the national level must take an action against such a member. We are demanding that.”