The Higher Education Minister Dr Blade Nzimande congratulated the National Student Financial Aid Scheme (Nsfas) for receiving nearly 500 000 applications to date for the academic year 2021. Department spokesperson Ishmael Mnisi says with only four weeks left before the closing of the NSFAS 2021 application cycle, an analysis revealed that the number of applications received to date has almost doubled compared to last year. Mnisi says, “The Minister says these latest statistics are encouraging and give an indication that NSFAS’s efforts in providing easy access through partnerships are yielding positive results…” “KwaZulu-Natal remains the highest province with applications accounting for 26 percent of the overall application statistics. Seconded by Gauteng with 21 percent and Limpopo with 17 percent respectively,” added Mnisi. NSFAS to stop funding 5000 students  In August NSFAS confirmed that a total of 5000 students who were funded for the 2020 academic year were unfunded. This came after financial information obtained from South African Revenue Services (SARS) revealed that these students had declared their total household family income was above the R350 000 threshold. To the Class of 2020, I wish you the very best. You have overcome difficulties that would test the resolve of even the most experienced and hardened adults.https://t.co/lHk66rKfc3 pic.twitter.com/mvhhlhnYE8 — Cyril Ramaphosa  #StaySafe (@CyrilRamaphosa) November 2, 2020  Ramaphosa encourages matrics ahead of finals Meanwhile, President Cyril Ramaphosa wished the matric class of 2020 well for their exams, urging them to summon their courage and strength as they commence writing exams this week. Matrics start their exams on Thursday. In his weekly letter to the nation, Ramaphosa has acknowledged that this year’s matrics have faced unprecedented challenges due to the restrictions imposed by the coronavirus, losing many valuable hours of learning and study. He has reminded them that they not only carry the hopes of their own success into the exam room but that of their families and all South Africans. Ramaphosa says this year’s matrics have had to endure conditions that their predecessor never had to confront. These including accessing and adapting to online learning, racing to finish the curriculum and enduring the mental strain of social isolation. He has lauded the Basic Education Department and educators who went the extra mile in ensuring their learners are prepared to write. Ramaphosa has also thanked businesses, families and ordinary people who provided their support by providing tablets, free e-content and supplementary tutoring to learners.  The Matric Exams for 2020 start tomorrow. We would like to take this opportunity to wish those who are writing all the best. The dedication and determination of the class of 2020 has been incredible to witness first hand.#MatricExamPreparations pic.twitter.com/GOVOwfokWb — Dep. Basic Education (@DBE_SA) November 4, 2020 