The African National Congress (ANC) has been served with a court interdict and a declaratory order by its youth structure – ANC Youth League. Friday, a group calling itself the ANCYL Crisis Committee, made up of youth league members across all provinces,  marched to the party’s headquarters, Luthuli House, in Johannesburg, to hand over the court papers. According to the group, the interdict states that the League wants to declare the National Youth Task Team (NYTT) illegal. The group’s legal representative Matthew Sibiya says, “There’s been a decision made by these members of the ANCYL to get clarity on a point of law on what actually is the status of the NYTT in as far as it relates to the ANCYL. So this is an application that has been brought to court, it’s a declaratory relief for the court to declare that indeed is the NYTT a legitimate and lawful structure in accordance with the constitution on ANC and of the Youth League.” The March has arrived at Luthuli House, ANC headquarters. Spokesperson @pulemabe to attend to the court order to be delivered by the National Crisis Committee. #SABCNews pic.twitter.com/4MfgRheOMc — Abongile Dumako (@AbongileDumako) November 6, 2020  The NYTT was appointed by the ANC’s National Executive Committee last year to oversee the rebuilding of the league’s structures after its leadership structure was disbanded. But now the group says it wants to see NYTT members shown the door. WATCH: Members of the ANCYL Crisis Committee gather at Buyer's Naude Square to engage in a national day of action wherein an application for a court interdict and declaratory order will be delivered to the ANC leadership at the ANC Headquarter, Luthuli House later. #SABCNews pic.twitter.com/Sid0vzDjLj — Abongile Dumako (@AbongileDumako) November 6, 2020  The ANC tried to calm down these committee members.  “The ANC is seized with that matter, we will be making a decision very soon and we will be able to communicate. There is a meeting of the National Working Committee of the ANC on Monday,” says ANC National Spokesperson Pule Mabe. They have promised to come back soon, should they not be happy with steps that are to be taken by the ANC in response to their action. A grouping calling itself ANC Youth League Crisis Committee marches to Luthuli House 