The personal attorney to the outgoing United States President Donald Trump used a bizarre Thursday press conference to ventilate unsubstantiated claims about electoral fraud, claiming it was nationally coordinated to hand President-Elect Joe Biden victory. Rudi Giuliani’s allegations are just the latest effort in a weeks-long campaign by the losing side to subvert the election result that has seen over two dozen lawsuits in multiple states with claims spanning voter fraud, corrupted voting machines to election interference by communist money from abroad. While the evidence of widespread electoral fraud remains slim to negligible at best, the President’s top surrogates continue to make baseless and wild claims about how the election was rigged, often pointing to Democratic cities with large Black populations, who turned out in their numbers to support Joe Biden – places like Detroit-Michigan, Atlanta-Georgia and Philadelphia-Pennsylvania to mention a few.  With hair-dye streaming down Rudi Giuliani’s face, the metaphors were literally writing themselves. “The company counting our vote with control over our vote is owned by two Venezuelans. Who were allies of Chavez or present allies of Maduro with a company whose chairman is a close associate and business partner of George Soros, the biggest donor to the Democrat Party, the biggest donor to Antifa and the biggest donor to Black Lives Matter. My goodness, what do we have to do to get you to give our people the truth?,” asked Giuliani. An Arizona Judge became just the latest to throw out a GOP lawsuit on Thursday seeking to expand the State’s audit of Biden’s victory in the Republican leaning state. This as Trump campaign lawyers also allege that a voting software company Dominion Voting Systems was hacked and changed the voting tallies in multiple states. “I want the American public to know right now that we will not be intimidated. American patriots are fed up with the corruption from the local level to the highest level of our government. And we are going to take this country back. We are not going to be intimidated. We are not going to back down. We are going to clean this mess up now. President Trump won by a landslide. We are going to prove it. And we are going to reclaim the United States of America for the people who vote for freedom,” said Trump’s attorney, Sidney Powell. However, the Department of Homeland Security’s Cybersecurity Agency has rejected the claims, calling the election “the most secure in American history.” Trump and senior republicans have not yet conceded the US election:  President-Elect Joe Biden is meanwhile warning that the incumbent will go down as one of the most irresponsible Presidents in American history. “An incredibly damaging message is being sent to the rest of the world about how democracy functions and I think it is – well, I don’t know his motive but I just think it’s totally irresponsible,” he told journalists. On whether he was concerned that he may succeed and that people might question the legitimacy of Biden’s administration, the President-elect said:  No, I’m not concerned – the vast majority of the American people, all the polling data already indicated, although Republicans who worry about it is higher but over 78% of the American people believe its without question, its legitimate, it’ sends a horrible message about who we are as a country.” States have until December 8th to meet a deadline for resolving election disputes and seating the electors who will formally select the next President on December 14th. As the Washington Post first reported that Trump had invited Republican lawmakers from the State of Michigan to the White House Friday as part of the broader campaign to overturn the result that shows Biden winning the state by 150 000 votes. The exact purpose of the meeting remains unclear, but it would appear to be part of an effort to seat electors to the Electoral College who might seek to subvert the popular vote in the state in Trump’s favour. 