A 32-year-old suspect has been arrested following the gruesome murder of six family members in Sidabekweni village in Elliotdale in the Eastern Cape on Tuesday night. The suspect was arrested in Ginsberg in King Williams Town last night. He is the partner of the 42-year-old woman who was hacked to death with an axe along with her five children, including a six months old toddler. Police spokesperson Tembinkosi Kinana says the suspect is expected to appear in court on Monday to face six counts of murder. He has called on the public to work with the police in curbing Gender-Based Violence. “Gender-Based Violence and femicide is a serious scene and crime in South African law. As the police, we are obligated to act decisively against it without fear or favour. We want to thank our communities for their unwavering support behind our investigations. the suspect is expected to appear at the  Mqanduli Magistrate’s court on the 30th of November once he is charged with six counts of murder.” North West man to appear in court after discovery of his grandmother’s body A 36-year-old man of Magogong village of Taung in North West is expected to appear at the Taung Magistrate’s Court after the body of his 73-year-old grandmother was found buried in their home. Police say the elderly woman was killed on Tuesday. They say a post mortem is yet to be conducted to establish the cause of death. Trial of man accused of killing Palesa Modiba postponed The trial of the man accused of murdering UJ student, Palesa Modiba seven years ago, has been postponed to Tuesday next week for closing arguments, in the High Court in Johannesburg. Dumisani Mkhwanazi allegedly buried Modiba’s body in the backyard of his home in Soweto after robbing her of her cellphone. He’s facing charges including murder and robbery with aggravating circumstances. Dumisani Mkhwanazi was the last person to take the stand. That’s after all the state witnesses finished their testimonies. He denied all the statements given by the witnesses linking him to the crimes for which he stands accused. The state questioned him about why all the witnesses, some complete strangers, gave evidence that incriminated him. Mkhwanazi told the court he is surprised by this. He maintained his innocence but conceded that he had seen Palesa at his home on the day she went missing. He told the court that he left her and came home late after visiting friends. The matter will be back in court on Tuesday for closing arguments.