Political analyst Dr Dale McKinley says Chairperson of the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo is not likely to recuse himself. Zondo is expected to deliver his decision at 10 o’clock on Thursday morning on former President Jacob Zuma’s application for his recusal. Zondo was due to deliver the decision on Wednesday afternoon but he postponed it. On Tuesday he said he was still going through the documents required to make a ruling. Lawyers for Zuma as well as the Commission’s legal team made arguments for and against Zondo’s recusal. On Monday, Justice Zondo read a statement at the Commission denying having a friendship with Zuma or Zuma having had a part in advancing his career. Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo rejected former President Jacob Zuma’s claims:  Zuma’s lawyers alleged that their client had been treated unfairly by the commission, ignoring and ridiculing his earlier evidence and in the manner it selected witnesses and some statements made by Zondo. Commission lawyers, however, rejected the claims saying they did not pass the test of what constitutes bias and therefore Zondo should stay put. Zondo is also expected to consider a statement that Zuma’s legal team will present to him that in response to Zondo’s characterisation of his relationship with their client. Dr McKinley says Zuma is using the application for Zondo’s recusal to disrupt the work of the Commission. “We’ve known from day one when Zuma was called to testify and this goes back to many, many years when he said he wanted his day in court to tell his story. But he’s using every trick in the book, the same thing with the Zondo Commission while fighting a larger battle to discredit the State Capture story. This is typical of him. I think he would like to disrupt the Zondo Commission. Deputy Chief Justice  Raymond Zondo to make decision on Zuma recusal application:   But Sharita Samuel, an attorney from the Legal Resource Centre, says it’s very difficult to predict what the Deputy Chief Justice will decide:   INFOGRAPHIC: The relationship between Raymond Zondo and Jacob Zuma Zuma nominates Zondo 3 March 2017  Judge Raymond Zondo is nominated by President Jacob Zuma as the Deputy Chief Justice of the Republic of South Africa.  09 January 2018  President Jacob Zuma announced the establishment of the Commission of Inquiry into State of Capture and the appointment of Deputy Chief Justice Zondo as its chairperson. Zondo to chair commission Commission biased towards Zuma 17 July 2019 15 July 2019  After 130 days of testimony from more than 80 people, Jacob Zuma appears before the State Capture Commission. On the second day of his appearance, Zuma dropped a bombshell that his PA had received a phone call threatening him, children and his legal counsel. In response, Chairperson Raymond Zondo says the fresh threats against Zuma were unacceptable. Zuma makes commission appearence Zuma‘s legal team threatened to pull out  of commission after complaining about the line of questioning by evidence leader Advocate Paul Pretorius. Zuma’s lawyer, Advocate Muzi Sikhakhane says that Zuma was brought to the Commission under false pretence. The State Capture Commission has not confirmed whether former President Jacob Zuma has submitted his response to an application for cross examination by veteran journalist Redi Tlhabi. Deputy Chief Justice, Raymond Zondo revealed that former President Jacob Zuma has not filed his affidavit before the State Capture Commission answering to certain matters.  Zondo sets down a non-negotiable ruling that Zuma should appear before the commission on the 16th to the 20th of November. 09 December 2019 02 03 21 September  2020 The letter by the Jacob Zuma Foundation penned a scathing letter to the chairperson of the State capture commission accusing him of being obsessed with the former President. 24 September  2020 03 28 September  2020 Zuma's lawyers request Deputy Chief Justice, Raymond Zondo to recuse himself as the Chairperson of the State Capture Commission. Your health is our priority Deputy Chief Justice, Raymond Zondo, has ordered that a summons be issued for the former president to appear before the State Capture Commission from the 16th to the 20th of November Zondo summons Zuma Zondo acknowledges child with Zuma’s sister in-law Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo has responded to allegations of historic family relations between himself and former president Jacob Zuma. Justice Zondo issued a statement explaining that he fathered a child with the sister of Zuma's estranged wife, Thobeka Madiba-Zuma more than 25-years ago. 09 October 2020 29 October 2020 (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));