The commission probing allegations of state capture will resume on Monday in Johannesburg. It will hear Denel related testimony from the former Chief Financial Officer of Denel Land
Systems, Pieter Knoetze. Acting Group Executive Supply Chain and Acquisition at Armscor, Sipho Mkwanazi and former
Denel Group Chief Financial Officer, Fikile Mhlontlo will also testify. On Saturday, the commission heard testimony from former SAA Technical board chair and SAA board member, Yakhe Kwinana. She appeared before the Commission in the last week, which heard that Kwinana failed to declare her business with a supplier during her tenure as SAA Technical board chair. If confirmed, the move would be in breach of Section 25 of the Companies Act which compels board members to disclose personal financial interests. In the heat of the grilling on Saturday, Kwinana expressed concerns over the Commission’s reference to her qualifications during cross-examination. “When you want to show me that I am incompetent, you say Ms Kwinana as a CA, out there you are killing the profession of CA. Therefore chair, I plead with you, if there is something I do not know I would not know that because I am a CA, I will not know that because of my stupidity as an individual. If I am sitting here as a disaster to the profession, please separate me from the profession to save the profession.” Evidence leader Kate Hofmeyr has alleged that Kwinana was involved in drafting a false sale agreement to explain irregular monies received by her colleague at the time, Nonsansa Memela, from JM Aviation. Kwinana was being questioned on where the money came from for then head of procurement, Memela, to buy a R2.5 million property. Memela earlier denied at the commission that she irregularly received money from JM Aviation. The deed of sale was signed between Kwinana’s Slipknot Investments and Memela. Hofmeyr has alleged that the sale agreement was drafted falsely to cover up the monies received by Memela. Kwinana rejected claims she received bribes that influenced her decision-making at SAA. “That agreement fell through anyway and therefore there was never a transaction that took place there, therefore you are correct in saying it was the loosest agreement because also when she cancelled the agreement there were no penalties,” said Kwinana. Hofmeyr hit back, saying: “It is clear that there was no need for this to be entered into or recorded in writing in 2015. The need arose when Ms Memela faced difficult questions from this commission about her receipt of R2.5 million.” State Capture Inquiry | Commission continues with testimony from Kwinana: 