There is no end in sight of the political turmoil in the Nelson Mandela Bay Metro, in the Eastern Cape. The provincial government is planning to intervene and place the metro under administration. Acting mayor Tshonono Buyeye is opposed to the move. He has appealed a court decision that cleared the way for the provincial government to act. Eastern Cape COGTA MEC Xolile Nqatha says the Nelson Mandela Bay Metro faces a number of challenges that warrant it to be placed under administration. “I wouldn’t say so, I wouldn’t say they are on the verge of dissolution, that will be the decision of the provincial executive council after they received the report from us. But as a general point non-cooperation inevitably can possibly lead to that, but as to whether we are at that point now. But what we want to make sure is that we follow all the steps.” The metro has not had a permanent mayor since December last year after the UDM’s Mongameli Bobani was removed. It also has no permanent municipal manager, a sticking point for Treasury to roll over grant funding. The political disintegration started when the coalition between the DA and UDM unravelled two years ago. The Nelson Mandela Bay Metro is now ranked the worst performing of the eight metros in terms of revenue collection and spending. Political analyst, Joleen Steyn Kotze, says the collapse in service delivery in the metro is concerning. “In terms of the service delivery protests that we have escalated I would say from about 2011 onwards, it is a critical issue. At one stage as we know Nelson Mandela Bay did not eradicate the bucket system, which of course affects human dignity. I think for me the service delivery agenda really needs to focus on restoration of human dignity; sanitation, water and electricity, food security to a certain extent. Looking at your infrastructure which is necessary for an economic development injection into the metro, electricity provision. So I think in terms of the service delivery agenda if you cast around the metro, the political theatrics, the constant infighting between political parties, fighting amongst political parties has actually brought that development agenda and maintenance agenda to a standstill and that in turn has just affected everything, all levels of service delivery; schooling, health, infrastructure, water and sanitation.” The 2021 election is heading for a tight contest again. The question is, will the big guns, the ANC, DA and EFF be able to convince voters not only to vote for their parties but to go and vote. Poor voter turnout was cited as a reason for the decline in ANC support in 2016. Smaller parties hope for improved support. They have proven how powerful a seat or two is in the 120 seat metro. There will also be new players on the block with plans to resuscitate Nelson Mandela Bay. Khusta Jack, the founder of the Abantu Integrity Movement, says he is confident that his newly formed civil rights organisation will make huge strides in next year’s election. “We are going to persuade each and every voter in the metro to give us an overwhelming mandate so that we can do what I am talking about, should the people side with the corrupt lot, with the racist lot, with the new fascist, then we will make sure that we control because we are confident that based in our own assessment that we will be able to decide which direction this metro is going. Assuming that we choose any of these people, we will teach them how to work with people. I have done that, I have worked with people, I have built big organisations for myself and even for the community at large. So we will do that, we will tell people, guys do you agree on this? If you agree that this is how we are going to conduct ourselves in terms of obeying all corporative government rules, all the necessary regulations are going to be obeyed, then there is no need to be worried who will come next to us because they will toe the line.” Political instability in Nelson Mandela Bay Metro affecting service delivery:  The ANC says it is confident about getting an outright majority this time around. ANC regional coordinator, Luyolo Nqakula, says their approach is based on achieving a majority. “When we approach the issues of elections we approach with the intent of being the absolute majority, we are not going to approach elections in anticipation of losing the elections themselves as the ANC. We are not going to approach the issues of elections in anticipation of forming a coalition government and I think that characterisation, which one had alluded to can boldly say that it is applicable to the likes of Khusta Jack as well,” Nqakula says. “Our people in Nelson Mandela Bay have experienced the instability and inconvenience of not having a single political party presiding over the affairs of the state  and that’s why we are confident that our people will entrust us with the mandate in our majority to be the absolute political majority in order for us to preside over the affairs of the city and the ANC come 2021 and lead a process of bringing about an abrupt U-turn for the better in terms of speeding up service delivery and ensuring a better life of all for our people.” The DA garnered the bulk of the Nelson Mandela Bay votes in 2016, but not enough to win outright. The party has had its fair share of challenges nationally since then. But they are confident of improving in their showing of four years ago. DA Eastern Cape leader, Nqaba Bhanga, says that DA is the only party that can govern in the Nelson Mandela Metro. “People should understand that the ANC is destroying this country and we need an urgent intervention for parties to break down the power base of the ANC for the DA has a good thing that happens and what interest us is that the DA grows every day and we believe that in the Nelson Mandela Bay we are going to take this city as a majority. But it is interesting that smaller parties are coming on board and I  think it will be arrogant of them to think that they can just wake up and take over, between ANC and DA. I think the DA is the strongest party in this city that is going to take over and people should start to vote for a party that wins and a party that will break down the ANC,  that party is the DA. We have shown it that we can weaken the ANC and we will grow more. We will consider the smaller parties to join with them, but with people with credibility, we will consider that. It has shown that in the city, smaller parties cannot run anything because they have no place to account, they have no constituency too.” Research by the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research shows that the Economic Freedom Fighters and the Freedom Front Plus posted the strongest gain in support in the various metros. In Nelson Mandela Bay, the EFF is the kingmaker, with six seats. Party Chief Whip in the Eastern Cape, Lukhanyo Mrara, says voters in the Nelson Mandela Bay Metro must give the EFF an outright majority in next year’s election. “The EFF is the alternative currently in South African politics, everyone has seen it in Parliament. But not only in Parliament but in the smaller municipalities, even here in Nelson Mandela, we have shown people that if we were to be given an opportunity. we are not in a hurry to govern, that is why we are saying that we want to govern alone. Currently, we are not in the coalition, we are assisting government to do things the right way and clean and that’s why we are saying we are an alternative.” Mixed views from residents And just like politics, residents have ranging views of who should run the show. “Regarding the small parties, it’s difficult for them to make an impact, or make an actual difference. I would rather go and vote for an established party and have those people who actually want to make a difference actually join those parties and try and make a difference from within, because those parties are more established and have got more support, more funding. So if you want to make a difference, then join those parties and then you will have a bigger impact overall than trying to do your own thing.” “I have honestly have given this much thought and I’ve really wondered if it’s actually worth going to vote next year because both players have been ineffective at meeting their promises. There had been so much factional fighting within the ANC itself and when coalitions are formed within the metro, they don’t really execute their mandate, there’s always a stalemate about voting and then with the ANC people have got their own patronage lines, palms to grease. So an independent player would really do much to revitalise the metro but in terms of the bullying and the established powers that are there it will be very difficult for them to work with them on a day-to-day basis.” A number of smaller parties are already active in the metro, but are they the answer? Political analyst, Joleen Steyn-Kotze says any new players will have to master working with other parties in order to make it in the already unstable council. “I think with Mr Khusta Jacks’ movement, what you see essentially is a new actor coming in. Will that new actor be able to inspire people to go out, not just vote for his movement but actually to go out and cast a vote, that’s the first consideration. The second consideration would be as a new actor coming in an already volatile council situation or administration what is the movement going to do before the election to try and secure some form of cooperation. On what basis will he be able to get by in, not just voters but from other political parties to say this is the political agenda, this is how we are going to fix the metro, let’s work together and take it forward.” Political parties will soon have an indication in which direction the wind blows when widespread by-elections are scheduled for the 11th of November. Just in the Eastern Cape, 19 wards in 13 municipalities will be contested.