Several roads in the Bloemfontein Magistrate’s Court precinct will be closed temporarily from midnight. Scores of protestors are expected to converge at court from the early hours of Friday morning ahead of the appearance of African National Congress (ANC) Secretary-General Ace Magashule. Magashule is expected to hand himself over at the Hawks offices before his court appearance. Magashule’s imminent arrest relates to his alleged involvement in the irregular awarding of the R255 million asbestos contract while he was the premier in the Free State. Mangaung Metro Spokesperson Qondile Khedama says they will team up with the police to ensure no one is inconvenienced. “Magistrate’s Court precinct will be closed. Part of Markgraaf, East Burger and President Brand will be closed. The intention is to make sure that most of the people who are attending court are confined to that area so that ordinary people who will doing their daily business around that precinct are informed and not disturbed.” Support for Magashule Free State ANC Youth League Chairperson Makalo Mohale says they will mobilise support for Magashule when he appears in court. “They have funded Nasrec conference. They are beginning to reap the results by antagonising anyone that will stand in from the white monopoly capital. So, Ace Magashule happens to be one of the people who is confronting white monopoly capital. That is why he is victimised as the leader of the ANC.” Meanwhile, former Free State ANC Treasurer Mxolisi Dukwana has welcomed Friday’s scheduled court appearance of Magashule. Dukwana says Magashule’s court appearance is part of an important process. “This is not a symbolic action. For us, it is a journey we are embarking on to ensure we rid this organisation of all these elements. These agents, these modern Askaris that are hallowing the ANC from within and abusing positions that they are given, treating our people as toys.” Magashule gets to keep his job pending the outcome of his arrest warrant: 