Western Cape Premier Alan Winde says it’s unacceptable that the EFF did not abide by their own agreement with the police and the City of Cape Town regarding the Brackenfell High School protest. The conditions were confirmed earlier in a meeting with all role-players. The EFF protested for the third time at Brackenfell High School over allegations of racism. Well done fearless ground forces of the @EFFSouthAfrica. Don’t explain yourself to anyone. We are proud of all of you; the leadership of the disciplined force of the left under the militant leadership of Commissar @DlaminiMarshall Marshalling the forces. They will not kill us all pic.twitter.com/E1tDj5AS9m — Julius Sello Malema (@Julius_S_Malema) November 20, 2020  Protestors went on the rampage after police dispersed them with stun grenades when they ignored the deadline to end their protest outside the school by 3pm. Grass fields were set alight and buildings and traffic lights stoned. Police use teargas and water cannons on hundreds of EFF supporters gathered near the Brackenfell High School:  Winde says he is also concerned that the Cape Party, which had not applied for a permit to gather and whose members were clearly there for political ends, also arrived to protest. SAHRC condemns chaos The Human Rights Commission has condemned the chaos which broke out in Brackenfell . The EFF had earlier secured a permit from the City of Cape Town for 100 people to protest. Many of the protesters had been bussed-in. [MUST WATCH]: Our leadership asked police to show us the permit of white racists who are gathered here at Brackenfell, they failed to. It is clear that even in 2020, it’s only Black people who need a permit to move around or gather in the place of birth. #EFFInBrackenfell pic.twitter.com/5tuyBrBlZ6 — Economic Freedom Fighters (@EFFSouthAfrica) November 20, 2020  Human Rights Commissioner, Chris Nissen, says the EFF’s leadership should have done more to avoid the clashes with police. “You can clearly see there was no adherence to the permit and the police have negotiated with them and hence they were saying 500. But at the point where they cut off the 500, people started throwing stones and police had to retaliate with water cannons and teargas, which is unfortunate because protests have to be peaceful, and that was part of the conditions of the permit. We call upon the leadership of the EFF to think about these things.” Roads cordoned off Roads leading to the Brackenfell in Cape Town remain cordoned off with barbed wire after continued protests. The EFF is unhappy over an alleged whites-only party for matriculants a few weeks ago. Matriculants at the school wrote the science paper at an undisclosed location. There haven’t been any arrests, but one woman was seen struggling to breathe after the teargas was fired. Vuyani Pambo addresses EFF supporters marching to Brackenfell High School: 