Eastern Cape health authorities are expected to announce stricter lockdown regulations on Friday. Health Minister Dr Zweli Mkhize is on a visit to Nelson Mandela Bay as the metro has become the country’s epicentre of the coronavirus pandemic. Twelve mobile testing centres have been put up in six different hotspots across the metro. Mkhize visited one at Motherwell Mall, where he checked on people’s behaviour on Black Friday and motivated them to follow protocols. Head of the mobile testing units for tracing, tracking and testing Dr Nozipho Jaxa: “We have come to observe how people are adhering to regulations inside the mall as they are shopping. As well as areas like post offices and taverns especially because it’s month end.” “We want to see when they are drinking do they observe protocol. However as the department of health we have put up a testing unit in this area, so that people who are here can test.” Dr Zweli Mkhize discusses the latest COVID-19 statistics:  Authorities jerk up COVID-19 fight Amid reports of a rapid surge in coronavirus infections in the Eastern Cape, health authorities are intensifying the fight against the pandemic by meeting with health workers, organised labour, religious leaders, civil society and businesses. Their aim is to ensure that everyone plays a role in pushing back the rise in infections. Eastern Cape Health Department spokesperson, Sizwe Kupelo, has urged the public to go back to basics, by washing hands, wearing masks and social distancing. “It’s very important for people to take this matter seriously because it is and the numbers are growing. Our biggest worry is if people are not participating, they not getting on board to support our efforts, we are going to have a problem. There is going to be a high power delegation in the province to deal with these issues but arrangements are still being made.” Large gatherings as well as the overloading of public transport remain a challenge in the province. Provincial Health Spokesperson, Siyanda Manana, says a number of interventions have been implemented to ensure compliance.