The lab contains computers and internet connectivity as well as educational content that will provide training for the youth in the area. “Our training institute Unisa, in partnership with Coursera, has advertised and called for young people to register so that they can benefit from the training program so that is one of the things that we will be doing through the cyber lab that we are opening. Secondly, as we talk of cyber security that we need to enhance, we have partnered again through our department with a cyber security hub to make sure that we provide information about the do’s and don’t when people interact with the internet or cyberspace,” Ndabeni-Abrahams said. Minister @Stellarated and Minister Lindiwe Zulu have arrived at the Kingdom Apostolic Church in Mabopane.The department together with its entities are also onsite to show case the work they do and how communities can benefit. #BuildingACapable4iR pic.twitter.com/rXpW85JQs5 — Dpt of Communications & Digital Technologies (@CommsZA) November 8, 2020  Social Development Minister Lindiwe Zulu also attended the event. She says it is important for government to partner with churches or organisations because they know and understand the issues in their respective community. “We come here not only to participate in the church. But me as Minister of Social Development, it is important for me as a Minister and my department, and Sassa and NDA, to know whether the people who are in this area are getting the services.” Ndabeni-Abrahams says the first phase of the digital migration is going well. Set-top boxes are being rolled out in North West, Northern Cape and the Free State. “Even in this area in Mabopane, as you heard, they rolled out to some households that are beneficiaries of the program. Of course, we are looking at ensuring by 2021 we would at least have covered and migrated people. Right now we are talking about the first phase, where we provided 1.5 million households. We are completing the remainder which is about 700 000 or so.” Happy Sunday 
Team NEMISA is at the Kingdom Apostolic Church, Mabopane as part of Minister Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams’s Outreach Programme #buildingacapable4irarmy #nemisaskillstraining pic.twitter.com/gUqRxa4ovq — NEMISA (@NEMISA_) November 8, 2020 