Trade union Bemawu has instructed its lawyers to reinstate an urgent application to try and compel the SABC to meaningfully consult as required by Section 189 of the Labour Relations Act amid the public broadcaster’s move to continue with retrenchments. SABC CEO Madoda Mxakwe says they’ve exhausted all avenues and that reducing the head count is the only way to make the public broadcaster a financially viable entity. Mxakwe says the SABC is forging ahead with plans to retrench some staff, with the number affected now possibly as low as 230. The SABC wants to complete the process before the end of the year. Mxakwe says salaries currently account for 43% of all expenses. “When you run an organisation, your expenses cannot be higher than your revenue that you attract. And we have done everything that we could. We have tried to reduce expenses significantly by close to about a billion … cost-cutting measures but that’s not sufficient. Unfortunately, painful as it, the organisation has reached a point where we now need to implement Section 189. This is the reality to say, do we continue with this which will potentially result in the collapse of the organisation, or do we deal with the bloated structure that we have.” Voluntary retrenchment packages Bemawu said it has proposed to the SABC that it offers voluntary retrenchment packages for up to 450 employees over the age of 55 and avoid retrenchments. The union argues that job losses at the public broadcaster are avoidable. Bemawu also said the SABC would soon reach its staffing targets through attrition and there was no need to axe staff, especially during these very difficult economic times. The SABC has been in consultation with workers’ representatives over the past four months. Bemawu to challenge retrenchments in court next week:  SA’s unemployment stats Meanwhile, South Africa’s unemployment rate increased by 7.5% points to 30.8% in the third quarter of the year compared with the second quarter. This is the highest unemployment rate recorded since 2008. According to Statistics South Africa, the results indicate that the number of employed persons increased by 543 000 to 14.7 million in the third quarter of 2020, and the number of unemployed persons increased by 2.2 million to 6.5 million compared to the second quarter of 2020. This resulted in an increase of 2.8 million in the number of people in the labour force. Stats SA says in spite of the increase in the number of discouraged work-seekers is up by 9.1%, the number of people who were not economically active for reasons other than discouragement decreased by 2.9 million between the two quarters, resulting in a net decrease of 2.6 million in the not economically active population. Infographic on unemployment stats: 2019 2020 UNEMPLOYMENT The country’s unemployment rate was recorded at 27.6% in the first quarter of this year, up from 27.1% in the fourth quarter of 2018. Stats SA says the country’s official unemployment rate has jumped to 29% in the second quarter of the year. Stats SA has announced that the official unemployment rate has increased by 1.0 percentage point to 30.1% in the first quarter of 2020.  Statistics SA says 2.2 million jobs were lost in South Africa in the second quarter of 2020.  First Quarter Second Quarter vs SA UNEMPLOYMENT FIGURES 2019/2020 23.3% 30.1% 27.6% 29% UNEMPLOYMENT RATE UNEMPLOYMENT RATE UNEMPLOYMENT RATE UNEMPLOYMENT RATE The figures Statistics South Africa has released for the third quarter show that it has risen to 29.1% – the highest level in 11 years. SA’s Unemployment rate remained unchanged at 29.1% in the fourth-quarter of 2019. Working from home has its own costs. In addition to broadband internet costs, employees need to think about their energy costs like electricity. Typical work-at-home expenses include desks, chairs, network routers, and monitors.  The nature of working remotely doesn’t make it inviting to chat with coworkers. Needless to say, productivity can get a huge uptick with remote workers. Consistent research has shown that remote workers log longer hours than their office-bound counterparts.  SA’s unemployment rate increased by 7.5% points to 30.8% in the third quarter. This is the highest unemployment rate recorded since in 2008. When working at an office, you pay for the costs of commuting, such as public transit, gas, or maintenance expenses. If you’re driving, you might also have to pay for parking. You likely also pick up a coffee or buy lunch during the day. All of these expenses add up. A study conducted found that a typical office worker is interrupted every If that wasn’t bad enough, it takes 11 minutes 25 minutes to get back on task. Yikes. Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Productivity 30.8% ? 29.1% UNEMPLOYMENT RATE UNEMPLOYMENT RATE 29.1% UNEMPLOYMENT RATE Source: StatsSA As a manager, you might have the desire to micromanage employees as they go remote. Instead, we suggest trusting people to perform until they prove otherwise. Employees want to do well; it’s your job to help them get there. When working from an office, managers have a clear view of what team members are working on. They can go up and ask questions, have daily check-ins, and have whiteboarding meetings to make sure everything is on track. Management (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));