Members of Parliament’s Higher Education and Training committee say an inquiry must be instituted into the operations of the National Student Financial Aid Scheme. This after hearing of several irregular appointments of friends and acquaintances of the administrator of the scheme. Staff members have told MPs that some of them were placed on suspension, while people were appointed without the necessary qualifications or positions were created for them. Members of the union Nehawu, in the National Student Financial Aid Scheme, have raised serious concerns about mismanagement against the administrator of the scheme, Randall Carollisen. It’s alleged that he had appointed relatives or friends, who did not necessarily have the skills or qualifications and that no proper procedure was followed. Carollison admitted that some of these people were his friends, but says he was always under the impression that proper procedure was followed. “If you qualify for a post you can surely apply? These people are not my family members there has been no personal benefit to me at all.” Six of the NSFAS employees, Kagisho Mamabolo, Malikah Hildebrandt, Marlene Bosset, Vuyokazi Dwane and Gilbert Muvavarirwa have told MPs of the alleged irregularities and interference. “We are not an angry or upset group. We want to move forward. We want our skills to be valued, not only now when there is trouble. Things are not the rosy picture painted here today. You can do a forensic investigation of my phone, you will see instruction from the administrator to interview people.  I have some people who admitted they were friends with the administrator. This was an era of a predetermined outcome, whether in DC or appointments. Some of these outcomes were sucked out of people’s thumbs. Let me tell you of this culture of fear. So many things happened, I couldn’t even talk to a colleague who told me that the boardroom is bugged. Bugged? why I asked.” Chairperson of the committee Philly Mapulane described the situation as a horror. “This is a horrible, terrible picture. very depressing, don’t know if all of you colluded for all of you to come and say this but the picture is not good. I am horrified. The unanimous view must be an inquiry, a forensic investigation, must be a consideration whether criminal offence committed so can be referred to relevant law enforcement agencies.” Responding to the allegations, Carollisen denied any staff members were ever intimidated for blowing the whistle or the offices were bugged. A follow-up meeting is planned for more detailed explanations of the allegations.