Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga says 10% of learners from Grade 1 to Grade 11 cannot be accounted for following the reopening of schools since the beginning of the lockdown. The Minister was answering a question on how many learners have not returned to school during a virtual social cluster oral reply session in the National Council of Provinces (NCOP). The BEEI seeks to address COVID-19 academic disruptions as well as some of the lingering systemic challenges. Education Assistants will support teachers in the classroom and provide extra support to learners. pic.twitter.com/ddkKGRC6BC — Dep. Basic Education (@DBE_SA) November 10, 2020  Motshekga says, “It could be that some parents have already decided that they are going to wait for next year. And the other thing which has been difficult is the timetable that we are using because kids come this week, the next week they are not coming.” As part of President Cyril Ramaphosa’s Presidential Stimulus Programme, through the Basic Education Employment Initiative (BEEI) the Basic Education Sector aims to create 200 000 employment opportunities for Education Assistants and 100 000 for General School Assistants. pic.twitter.com/jKJjaGdaCL — Dep. Basic Education (@DBE_SA) November 10, 2020  In other instances, they have to rotate. They come Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday is another class. So, even then it’s been quite difficult to monitor. But I can say, chair, that indeed we estimate that between Grade 1s and Grade 11, there is 10% of learners that we cannot account for. It could be that they are waiting to re-register. “They thought that after waiting for too long they would have lost a lot of days, therefore they will just repeat a Grade or let’s says parents are homeschooling. We are not sure. We will have a definite number. We can also share with members of parliament, now that we write exams,” she adds. ‘COVID-19 positive matric students will write exams’ Minister Motshekga has confirmed that matric students who have tested positive for COVID-19 or those showing symptoms will be allowed to write their National Senior Certificate exams. She told MPs that after appeals to her department and assistance from other stakeholders, all matrics will write their final exams regardless of their health status. Matric exams started on Thursday last week.  The 300 000 employment opportunities are targeted at youth between the ages of 18 and 35 years old. Recruitment will take place at the community level, with schools required to prioritize candidates living near the school. pic.twitter.com/GjdJwgPR9K — Dep. Basic Education (@DBE_SA) November 10, 2020  Basic Education Department has issued revised protocols and a circular for managing COVID-19 cases during matric examinations pic.twitter.com/x7XJleltyS — Dep. Basic Education (@DBE_SA) November 9, 2020 