Communications Minister, Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams has refuted claims that there are plans to privatise the SABC. This after the SABC extended the suspension of the Section 189 process for a further 30 days to allow for consultations with unions and government to continue. On Monday, Ndabeni-Abrahams met with Labour Minister Thulas Nxesi Unions and the SABC board to discuss alternatives to retrenchments. SABC employees have been picketing daily outside the public broadcasters’ offices after some employees received retrenchment and redundancy letters. Ndabeni-Abrahams has outlined the processes being taken to resolve the disputes:  Part 2 of the minister’s interview:  SABC management says the process has been fair: Meanwhile, SABC management has maintained that the retrenchment process has been fair and has denied that the extension of the suspension is an admission of wrongdoing on the process so far. SABC COO Ian Plaatjies says they will consult on the intended restructuring and that retrenchment notices to staff will only be withdrawn if that person’s position is no longer redundant. “We are not suspending or avoiding or terminating the 189 process, we are suspending the implementation of that if certain jobs are no longer redundant we will then withdraw that specific letter but the last thing we want to do is give people false hope. The structures can change, we are going to be engaging in this in an open way while we are open for those structures to change. It will go through a process, it’s not just an automatic thing, it has to make sense within our target operating model. The current letters that were sent out to affected employees will now move on by 30 days as well and that will move to the 31st of January.” Ukhozi FM current affairs shows cancelled due to SABC strike: The midday current affairs shows on SABC’s Ukhozi FM was cancelled due to the strike by SABC employees facing retrenchments. The station had to cancel Ezisematheni shows yesterday and today due to a shortage of staff. Members of the Communication Workers’ Union (CWU) are demanding the withdrawal of letters the SABC issued last week to workers whose positions have been declared redundant. The SABC plans to retrench 400 workers by the end of the year. 