The National Taxi Alliance (NTA) says it will not recognise any of the decisions and resolutions taken at the recent Taxi Lekgotla. It also wants answers on the non-payment of the R1.35 billion COVID-19 relief fund to the taxi industry. The Alliance has given Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula and the Presidency, 14-days to respond to their demands. Members affiliated to the Alliance marched to the Transport Department and the Union Buildings in Pretoria. The NTA has accused Mbalula of coercing them to be part of the South African National Taxi Council (Santaco), which will also be responsible for the distribution of the funds. The funds were expected to paid out by the end of October. NTA says they were not allowed to participate in the National Taxi Lekgotla, held last month. NTA President Mohanoe Francis Masitsa says, “In so far as the NTA is concerned, all decisions and all resolutions taken at the National Lekgotla are all by definition an archipelago of just.” The Alliance also demands full recognition as a taxi industry body. They want the Presidency to hear their cries because they believe they are a big structure that deserves to be heard. Today’s NTA strike was marred by acts of violence in the morning. NTA members allegedly hijacked a City of Tshwane bus, which led to the suspension of bus services. Looting of stores also took place in some parts of the city. The Alliance has distanced itself from these actions. The Alliance’s Theo Malele, “We have also learned about these acts of barbarism of which we strongly abhor. And we have also learned that there was a motorist who smashed a minibus taxi’s rear windshield. We are very sorry that had to happen. Because that is what we had agreed on and we call on law enforcement agencies to step in.” Transport Deputy Minister Dikeledi Magadzi accepted the memorandum on behalf of the minister. “The taxi industry was there to make sure that South Africa gets moved. The taxi industry was there, despite the fact that they were not making a profit but they made sure that South Africa is moved. I have received the memorandum on behalf of Minister Mbalula. As indicated on the memorandum, we will respond within 14 days.” Deputy Minister in the Presidency Thembi Siweya accepted the memorandum at the Union Buildings after which Alliance members dispersed peacefully. National Taxi Alliance protest against unpaid COVID-19 relief money: 