Free State ANC Youth League Chairperson Makalo Mohale says they will mobilise support for ANC Secretary-General Ace Magashule when he appears in court. Magashule is expected to hand himself to the Hawks offices in Bloemfontein. His legal woes relate to the R255 million asbestos tender when he was Free State premier. “They have funded Nasrec conference. They are beginning to reap the results by antagonising anyone that will stand in from the white monopoly capital. So, Ace Magashule happens to be one of the people who is confronting white monopoly capital. That is why he is victimised as the leader of the ANC.” Meanwhile, former Free State ANC Treasurer Mxolisi Dukwana has welcomed Friday’s scheduled court appearance of Magashule. Dukwana says Magashule’s court appearance is part of an important process. “This is not a symbolic action. For us, it is a journey we are embarking on to ensure we rid this organisation of all these elements. These agents, these modern Askaris that are hallowing the ANC from within and abusing positions that they are given, treating our people as toys.” Magashule must step down says Free State ANC:

The pro-Magashule group has accused the anti-Magashule group of sowing divisions in the ANC. Supporters of Magashule have accused Dukwana and other party members who recently marched to ANC headquarters in Johannesburg of being bribed to destabilise the movement. One of Magashule‘s supporters, Mduduzi Nkambule says, “I don’t know what we can call this. It’s a group of just few people who happen to know some individual even before Nasrec. They got money, and they got access to transport. That’s why you see them. They can’t even answer those questions. So, they are here to just show the broader (sic) that is happening in the ANC. Some of them we know the leaders of. This faction today are the people whom their names are in those leaked documents of the CR17.” The two ANC groups are expected to picket outside the Bloemfontein Magistrate’s Court. However, Magashule has called on the public not to march to court or print regalia in his name when he appears in court on Friday. This followed the meeting of the ANC’s top six officials earlier this week, after the Hawks had notified Magashule of his imminent arrest. Hawks issue warrant of arrest for Ace Magashule: