Former South African Airways (SAA) board chairperson Dudu Myeni continued to invoke her privilege to silence before the state capture commission of inquiry. On Friday, she was questioned on her relationship with former Bosasa executives and the security upgrades to her home which allegedly served as a standard Bosasa bribe to politicians and those in prominent positions. However, Myeni could not confirm the nature of her relationship with the late Bosasa boss, Gavin Watson for fear of incriminating herself. It’s alleged that the former SAA boss would receive monthly payments of R300 000 to deposit into the Jacob Zuma Foundation account from Bososa –  and was allegedly the beneficiary of travel benefits and had security upgrades at her home to the tune of around R500 000. Other witnesses have testified about the role Myeni played in organising meetings between former President Jacob Zuma and Bosasa executives. Even though Myeni confirmed the meetings in a statement to the Commission she invoked her right to silence when she was questioned on them. The Commission attempted to compel Myeni to answer questions relating to events that led to former Finance Minister Nhlanhla Nene’s axing. Dudu Myeni at the State Capture:  However, Myeni’s legal team argued they are cautious following the arrest of certain witnesses who have appeared before the Commission. But, the Commission’s Chairperson said Myeni would not be admitted to a crime by answering a question pertaining to a meeting between Nene and former President Jacob Zuma. It’s also emerged that Myeni and the late former Bosasa boss, Watson tried to influence the awarding of a security tender at SAA. A statement from one former SAA interim CEO Nico Bezuidenhout reveals that Myeni had organised a meeting to discuss the status of the tender with Watson. Meanwhile, the Right2Know Campaign is appalled by the conduct of Myeni during her cross-examination at the Commission. R2K says in a statement that Myeni placed an important whistleblower in harm’s way by naming the person and this has a chilling effect on South Africa’s democracy. Evidence leader Kate Hofmeyr has indicated the intention to charge Myeni for revealing the identity of a secret state capture witness dubbed Mr X during her testimony at the commission. Dudu Myeni divulges Mr. X’s real name:  State Capture to continue on Saturday The hearings of the Judicial Commission of Inquiry into Allegations of State Capture, Corruption and Fraud in
the Public Sector including Organs of State will continue on Saturday at 09h30. The Commission will hear Aviation related testimony from the former Board member of South
African Airways and former Chairperson of South African Airways Technical (SAAT), Ms Yakhe
Kwinana, on Saturday.