The Commission of Inquiry into State Capture is expected to resume on Monday with former president Jacob Zuma’s application for Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo to recuse himself as the chairperson of the commission. Zuma believes that there is a level of bias against him and a lack of impartiality. The former president also made it clear that he does not believe the concept of State Capture exists, and that it is a political and not an investigative project. Zuma’s lawyer’s letter to the commission states that Zuma is “of the firm view” that Zondo’s alleged bias against him stems from “personal matters and strained relations that the chairperson ought to have disclosed right at the beginning of the inquiry.” Zuma wants Justice Zondo to recuse himself:  However, no evidence is provided of the strained relations, nor of what aspect of Justice Zondo and Zuma’s personal dealings could have resulted in bias. The commission is looking at briefing an outside council to investigate the matter. Meanwhile, Secretary of the Commission Dr Khotso De Wee has warned Zuma’s lawyers of a possible criminal sanction against him for ignoring requests for information with regard to Eskom and Prasa. Zuma vs Zondo| Experts label it bizarre and a desperate attempt to hide the truth:   Zuma nominates Zondo 3 March 2017  Judge Raymond Zondo is nominated by President Jacob Zuma as the Deputy Chief Justice of the Republic of South Africa.  09 January 2018  President Jacob Zuma announced the establishment of the Commission of Inquiry into State of Capture and the appointment of Deputy Chief Justice Zondo as its chairperson. Zondo to chair commission Commission biased towards Zuma 17 July 2019 15 July 2019  After 130 days of testimony from more than 80 people, Jacob Zuma appears before the State Capture Commission. On the second day of his appearance, Zuma dropped a bombshell that his PA had received a phone call threatening him, children and his legal counsel. In response, Chairperson Raymond Zondo says the fresh threats against Zuma were unacceptable. Zuma makes commission appearence Zuma‘s legal team threatened to pull out  of commission after complaining about the line of questioning by evidence leader Advocate Paul Pretorius. Zuma’s lawyer, Advocate Muzi Sikhakhane says that Zuma was brought to the Commission under false pretence. The State Capture Commission has not confirmed whether former President Jacob Zuma has submitted his response to an application for cross examination by veteran journalist Redi Tlhabi. Deputy Chief Justice, Raymond Zondo revealed that former President Jacob Zuma has not filed his affidavit before the State Capture Commission answering to certain matters.  Zondo sets down a non-negotiable ruling that Zuma should appear before the commission on the 16th to the 20th of November. 09 December 2019 02 03 21 September  2020 The letter by the Jacob Zuma Foundation penned a scathing letter to the chairperson of the State capture commission accusing him of being obsessed with the former President. 24 September  2020 03 28 September  2020 Zuma's lawyers request Deputy Chief Justice, Raymond Zondo to recuse himself as the Chairperson of the State Capture Commission. Your health is our priority Deputy Chief Justice, Raymond Zondo, has ordered that a summons be issued for the former president to appear before the State Capture Commission from the 16th to the 20th of November Zondo summons Zuma Zondo acknowledges child with Zuma’s sister in-law Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo has responded to allegations of historic family relations between himself and former president Jacob Zuma. Justice Zondo issued a statement explaining that he fathered a child with the sister of Zuma's estranged wife, Thobeka Madiba-Zuma more than 25-years ago. 09 October 2020 29 October 2020 (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));