Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo says that while relations between him and former President Jacob Zuma have been cordial over the years, they are not friends as stated by Zuma. Zondo was speaking at the commencement of the application filed by Zuma that Zondo recuse himself from hearing his testimony at the State Capture Commission. Zuma filed the recusal application last week claiming that family ties he has with Zondo, may cloud the deputy Chief Justice’s judgment as chair of the inquiry. Zondo outlining his position. “Mr Zuma has never been to any of the houses I have lived with my family since the early 1990s and I have never invited him. He only met my wife at the opening of Parliament and other government functions. He has also not been to any of the houses that I have lived in Gauteng over the last 24/25 years since my appointment as a Judge in 1997. Mr Zuma and I do not socialise and have never socialised together. I accept that there are functions, special government functions that he attended and I attended and that at such occasions we greeted each other and would have brief conversations.” Deputy Chief Justice Zondo has rejected former President Zuma’s claims that he is biased against the former President because of their historical personal relationship. In hearing the recusal application against him brought by Zuma, Zondo says that this is not the first time he has presided over a number of case concerning Zuma in the past. “From November 2011 to May 2012 when I was an Acting Justice of the Constitutional Court and in the last 8 years since my appointment as Justice of the Constitutional Court I have sat in a number of matters which involved Mr Zuma as President in which the court has given judgments, sometimes against him and sometimes in his favour and Mr Zuma has never complained in all those years that I had a close relationship with him that disqualified me from sitting in matters in which he was involved.” Zuma vs Zondo| Experts label it bizarre and a desperate attempt to hide the truth:   Zuma nominates Zondo 3 March 2017  Judge Raymond Zondo is nominated by President Jacob Zuma as the Deputy Chief Justice of the Republic of South Africa.  09 January 2018  President Jacob Zuma announced the establishment of the Commission of Inquiry into State of Capture and the appointment of Deputy Chief Justice Zondo as its chairperson. Zondo to chair commission Commission biased towards Zuma 17 July 2019 15 July 2019  After 130 days of testimony from more than 80 people, Jacob Zuma appears before the State Capture Commission. On the second day of his appearance, Zuma dropped a bombshell that his PA had received a phone call threatening him, children and his legal counsel. In response, Chairperson Raymond Zondo says the fresh threats against Zuma were unacceptable. Zuma makes commission appearence Zuma‘s legal team threatened to pull out  of commission after complaining about the line of questioning by evidence leader Advocate Paul Pretorius. Zuma’s lawyer, Advocate Muzi Sikhakhane says that Zuma was brought to the Commission under false pretence. The State Capture Commission has not confirmed whether former President Jacob Zuma has submitted his response to an application for cross examination by veteran journalist Redi Tlhabi. Deputy Chief Justice, Raymond Zondo revealed that former President Jacob Zuma has not filed his affidavit before the State Capture Commission answering to certain matters.  Zondo sets down a non-negotiable ruling that Zuma should appear before the commission on the 16th to the 20th of November. 09 December 2019 02 03 21 September  2020 The letter by the Jacob Zuma Foundation penned a scathing letter to the chairperson of the State capture commission accusing him of being obsessed with the former President. 24 September  2020 03 28 September  2020 Zuma's lawyers request Deputy Chief Justice, Raymond Zondo to recuse himself as the Chairperson of the State Capture Commission. Your health is our priority Deputy Chief Justice, Raymond Zondo, has ordered that a summons be issued for the former president to appear before the State Capture Commission from the 16th to the 20th of November Zondo summons Zuma Zondo acknowledges child with Zuma’s sister in-law Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo has responded to allegations of historic family relations between himself and former president Jacob Zuma. Justice Zondo issued a statement explaining that he fathered a child with the sister of Zuma's estranged wife, Thobeka Madiba-Zuma more than 25-years ago. 09 October 2020 29 October 2020 (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));