The Communication Workers Union (CWU) says it is continuing with its strike action against retrenchments at the SABC. Striking workers and their supporters on Friday held pickets outside SABC offices across the country. The public broadcaster began the process of retrenching as many as 400 full-time staff last week. CWU goes ahead with strike despite temporary suspension of SABC retrenchments:  Letters were issued to staff informing them that their positions are either redundant or that they were considered surplus and had to reapply for their jobs. CWU secretary-general Aubrey Tshabalala says they are demanding, among other things, that the current board be dissolved and the SABC be placed under administration. “SABC workers, we are here Monday morning, those who are working on Saturday or Sunday; don’t go to work.” Management to respond next week SABC Group CEO Madoda Mxakwe said on Friday management will respond to workers’ demands next week. Mxakwe accepted a memorandum of demands from CWU at the public broadcaster’s headquarters in Auckland Park, Johannesburg. “So we’ll submit this to the board today, and we’ll get a response hopefully early next week,” Mxakwe said. Madoda Mxakwe says management will respond to workers’ demands next week:  Protesters were not pleased by his brief response. However, Tshabalala accepted that Mxakwe did not have a mandate to make any commitments on the spot. The crowd dispersed peacefully. The ANC, whose members also came out in solidarity with SABC staff, were adamant that no worker should lose their job. ANC NEC member Dakota Lekgoete said the ruling party stands for no retrenchments. “Down with retrenchments down. On behalf of the alliance, trade unions, the ANCYL, the workers of SABC and all South Africans. Our vernacular languages matter. As the ruling party, which has been voted by the majority of South Africans, we’re saying no to retrenchments. The board must find an alternative to salvage and save 400 workers who are about to lose their jobs. The board and management, if they cannot shape up, they must ship out.”