The accused in the multimillion rand asbestos audit case will appear in the Bloemfontein Regional Court on Wednesday. Seven people and five companies face more than 60 charges of fraud, corruption and money laundering related to the irregular awarding of the R255-million tender. Among the accused is the ousted Mangaung Executive Mayor Olly Mlamleli, Free State Human Settlements head Nthimotse Mokhesi and Blackhead Consulting director Edwin Sodi. Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane has found that only R21 million was spent on the actual audit of asbestos roofs in the Free State. National Prosecuting Authority Spokesperson Sipho Ngwema says more charges are likely to be added. Former premier implicated Meanwhile, former Free State Premier Ace Magashule was served with a warrant of arrest yesterday by the Hawks for his alleged role in the awarding of the multimillion asbestos tender. Magashule, who is set to appear in the Bloemfontein Magistrate’s Court on Friday, says he does not fear the arrest warrant. He further says he has done nothing wrong, adding that he will be in contact with his lawyers over the matter. In the video below, SABC News Reporter Samkele Maseko unpacks the warrant of arrest:  Hands off Ace Magashule Users on Twitter have expressed their sentiments towards Magashule’s arrest, with #handsoffmagashule currently trending. While some have pledged their loyalty and support towards the former Premier, others say all need to be equal before the law and politicians must account for all their wrongdoing. Here are a few reactions: This is one thing I don’t understand honestly. Having campaigns for people who are facing the law? If people are innocent, let the law declare them as innocent. Not a kangaroo court or a court of public opinion. #handsoffacemagashule — Malome Style mazinyo (@_goldtrash) November 11, 2020  The Dogs of White Monopoly Capital and the Stellenbosch Mafia must leave our Secretary General Ace Magashule alone. #HandsOffAceMagashule pic.twitter.com/1D2wdrKNZg — The_Villager (@The_commentor1) November 11, 2020  I can’t support someone who has been implicated by so many people for wrong doing. If Ace is really clean, then the courts will clear him. Needy blacks again supporting someone who’s alleged to have stolen from them. What a disgrace. Let him account. #handsoffacemagashule — mohale_desmond (@desmond_mohale) November 11, 2020  Only a conference of the ANC can remove any member of the top 6. Those who want to enact a clause saying “members facing allegations of corruption must step aside” can think again when it comes to the top 6 Ace Magashule is going nowhere #HawksArrests #HandsOffAceMagashule — Marxist (@Kgomo389) November 10, 2020  -Additional reporting by SABC News        