Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga says her department is coordinating with the Health Department in establishing isolation rooms at schools around the country to enable matriculants that test positive for the coronavirus to write their exams. The Department of Basic Education and the Department of Health have just concluded an agreement this evening that will ensure that learners who test positive for COVID-19 are allowed to write the final matric examinations. pic.twitter.com/Ewx3ge8WQU — Dep. Basic Education (@DBE_SA) November 4, 2020  Over a million learners will write exams this year, the largest group to write in the country’s history. The Department is administering a combined examination with both full time and part-time learners. Over 616 000 of those writing are full-time candidates that will sit for their final examination for the first time. Motshekga says although it has been a tough year in dealing with the disruptions that the coronavirus pandemic has caused, she is optimistic that the class of 2020 will pull through the year:  Provincial governments geared up for exams Eastern Cape Premier Oscar Mabuyane says government has done its best to ensure that the matric exams are a success despite the COVID-19 pandemic’s disruption of the academic year. Almost 80 000 learners in the province are expected to sit for the English First Additional exam on Thursday. The province is aiming for an 80% pass rate, up from the 76.5% achieved in 2019. In a virtual address, Mabuyane wished the matric class of 2020 well as they begin writing their final exams. In the Western Cape, provincial Education Minister Debbie Schäfer has cautioned against the disruption of matric exams due to social unrest. Nearly 70 000 learners across the province will write their first matric exams today. The province has 95 000 registered matriculants and 510 exam centres. A total of 2 540 invigilators have been appointed to oversee the writing of the exams. Schäfer has wished matric learners in the province well for their National Senior Certificate examinations. Free State targeting number one spot Meanwhile, the Free State Education Department says it is targeting a 90% pass rate. Provincial Education MEC Tate Makgoe is monitoring the start of the National Senior Certificate examinations. In 2019, the province was ranked number one with an 88% pass rate. This morning I visited Grade 12 learners at Kagisho Comprehensive School and spoke to them a few minutes before they started writing. Good luck to all our learners. Make the Free State proud!#100PercentTouch @DBE_SA @KST_DWSD @Kagiso_Trust @kamza -Additional reporting by Mlamli Maneli, Nomsa Mazibuko and Siseko Kondile