Traditional Leaders Organisation, Contralesa, is urging tavern owners to keep noise levels down as South Africa’s matric learners begin writing their final examinations on Thursday. More than one million matriculants are sitting for their National Senior Certificate (NSC). The organisation’s president Kgosi Larmeck Mokoena says they have received complaints from some members of the public about high levels of noise, especially in townships and villages. This year teaching and learning was disrupted for a longer period because of the coronavirus outbreak. Schools were closed for three months during the hard lockdown and upon return learners were forced to rotate attending classes as a way of minimising the impact of COVID-19. Kgosi Mokoena has urged parents to ensure that leaners get enough time to study considering that it was a difficult year for learning and teaching. He called on traditional leaders to give support to learners in rural areas by ensuring their safety whilst preparing for their exams during the night. “We are all aware that this was a very difficult year for our learners due to COVID-19 they studied under very difficult conditions. I want to call upon owners of liquor outlets who use to play loud music to please bear with us reduce the volume or at least kill it for now just for the sake of our kids so that they are able to focus and concentrate on their studies. I want to call upon our parents let’s for now leave our kids to study let’s not task them to do those house chores that they were doing on daily basis. I want to call upon the department of minerals and energy to please leave the lights on so that our kids are able to study unhindered. I want to say to all those grade 12 learners good luck wish them well. I hope they will make us proud,” the Contralesa president says. Mokoena has also appealed to municipalities across the country, especially those in rural areas to ensure learners are able to access school to arrive in time for their exams. Dietician Sylvia Masango is on the other hand advising learners to eat healthy and do light exercises to enhance their concentration ability. “Common mistake many make during this crucial period is to eat poorly and unhealthy junk food. Lots of chocolate, energy drink are also taken in place of normal meal to keep energy level up especially during exam. However, this in not only harmful to your long term health but it can also negatively affect your exam performance and even with supplements some of the supplement are not good so we do not normally encourage using them that is why we advise people especially during this time of exam to eat things such as oily fish, eggs, peanuts butter, green tea and drink lot of water and we cannot emphasise the importance of exercising enough,” Masango advises. President Cyril Ramaphosa has wished the learners well, urging them to summon their great reserves of courage and strength in this, the final push. “When you enter the exam room in the days ahead, you will be carrying not just your own hopes for success and those of your families. You will also carry the hopes of us, the South African people. We are immensely proud of you and wish you the very best of luck,” he wrote in his weekly newsletter to the nation. Dr Linda Meyer on managing stress and anxiety during matric exams: 