President Cyril Ramaphosa has told Parliament that the African National Congress (ANC) is dealing with how to handle the status of party members implicated in alleged corruption and wrongdoing and he cannot, as head of state, intervene in that matter. The party’s NEC is expected to address the matter in its next meeting. Ramaphosa has been answering questions in the National Assembly and was asked by DA leader John Steenhuisen why MP Bongani Bongo was allowed to ask questions in Parliament, despite facing fraud and corruption charges. “The ANC, through its own processes is dealing with these matters and like I have said before with all these matters, let us wait for all these processes to unfold. Standing here today, I stand before you as the President of the Republic, those matters that Steenhuisen is raising are germane to the ANC which I have said is dealing with the matter.” Ramaphosa has defended the non-disclosure of details of those who contributed to his CR17 campaign for the Presidency of the ANC. He was asked by Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader Julius Malema why bank statements and details have not been released of those who contributed to his campaign to be leader of the ANC. The Political Party Funding Act, which I signed into law last year & which the EFF has consistently opposed, does regulate public & private funding of political parties. It also requires the disclosure of donations that are accepted. #RamaphosaQandA — ANC Parliament (@ANCParliament) November 12, 2020  The FIC has confirmed in its affidavits before court that the information it shred before the Public Protector could only be made public with their express permission, which was not sought by the Public Protector. #RamaphosaQandA — ANC Parliament (@ANCParliament) November 12, 2020  Ramaphosa says the Financial Intelligence Centre (FIC) opposed the publishing of those details and he has no control over whether such details are made public. “The FIC has confirmed in its affidavit before court that the information shared with the Public Protector could only be made public with their express permission, which was not sought. The bank statements in question are from accounts over which I do not have any form of control, and are protected by the country’s privacy laws. It is, therefore, not within my power to make any of them public. Absolutely, no evidence of corruption or improper conduct exists in relation to these documents or the CR17 campaign.” Ramaphosa answers oral questions in the National Assembly: 