US President-Elect Joe Biden has introduced key members of his future Cabinet – a day after the General Services Administration of the US Government finally gave the green light for resources to be released for the Presidential transition. Biden said his team would help reassert the country’s historic role as world leader in a sharp departure from the current administration that has sought to put America First while undermining its global alliances. Biden had a simple message in a shift in tone from the man he’ll replace next January – America is strongest when it works with it’s allies abroad while introducing an institutionalized team who would speak to that sentiment. “It’s a team that will keep our country and our people safe and secure. It’s a team that reflect the fact that America back, ready to lead the world, not retreat from it. Once again, sit at the head of the table, ready to confront our adversaries and not reject our allies. Ready to stand up for our values.” His most senior cabinet nomination went to a former deputy Secretary of State and a former deputy National Security Advisor in the Obama administration Antony Blinken. “Now, we have to proceed with equal measures of humility and confidence. Humility because as the President-Elect said, we cannot solve all the world’s problems alone, we need to be working with other countries, we need their cooperation, we need their partnerships but also confidence because America at its best still has a greater ability than any other country on earth to bring others together to meet the challenges of our time.” Part of his foreign policy team will be a former Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs and a career foreign service diplomat with 35 years experience. Linda Thomas-Greenfield had this to say: “On this day I’m thinking about the American people, my fellow career diplomats and public servants around the world, I want to say to you America is Back, multilateralism is back, diplomacy is back. Mr President-Election, I’ve often heard you say how all politics in personal and that’s ho you build relationships of trust and bridge disagreements and find common ground and in my 35 years in the foreign service across four continents , I’ve put a Cajun spin on it, Gumbo diplomacy.” He also named Aljandro Mayorkas – a Cuban born naturalized citizen – to lead the Department of Homeland Security that’s responsible for implementing the country’s immigration policy, the first woman as Director of National Intelligence in Avril Haines, Jake Sullivan as one of the youngest National Security Advisors and a former Senator, Presidential nominee and Secretary of State as the new Presidential Climate Czar – his name is John Kerry. “President Joe Biden will trust in God and he will also trust in science to guide our work on earth to protect God’s creation. Mr President-elect and Vice President-elect Harris I look forward to getting to work.” A cabinet the Vice-President Elect Kamala Harris indicated would be reflective and look like the Americans they serve. “Over the past few months I have also come to know the sound judgment, expertise and character of the people on this stage. I can say with confidence that they are to a person, the right women and men for these critical positions and I look forward to working alongside them on behalf of the American people and on behalf of a president who will ask tough questions, demand that we be guided by facts and expect our team to speak the truth.” All nominees will face Senate confirmations after Biden’s inauguration in January next year.