Nine people are expected to appear in court on Monday following their arrest in Brackenfell in Cape Town’s northern suburbs Friday after chaos broke out in the area. Hundreds of Economic Freedom Fighters’ (EFF) supporters protested against alleged racism at the Brackenfell High school. Police used teargas, stun grenades and a water cannon to control hundreds of EFF supporters. Eight people were arrested on charges of public violence. Police spokesperson FC van Wyk says one member of the public was injured when he tried to disrupt the protest. Van Wyk says the man was arrested on a charge of incitement. “As the protesters dispersed they were throwing stones at all law enforcement agencies as well as businesses. Several SAPS, law enforcement vehicles, windows of businesses as well as private vehicles  were damaged.” [WARNING: LANGUAGE] Chaos erupts at Brackenfell High School as EFF marches:  Meanwhile, the Human Rights Commission condemned the chaos in Brackenfell. Commissioner, Chris Nissen, said the EFF’s leadership should have done more to avoid the clashes with police. “You can clearly see there was no adherence to the permit and the police have negotiated with them and hence they were saying 500, but at the point where they cut off the 500, people started throwing stones and police had to retaliate with water cannons and teargas; which is unfortunate because protests have to be peaceful, and that was part of the conditions of the permit. We call upon the leadership of the eff to think about these things.” Winde calls out EFF for breaking agreement on number of protestors Western Cape Premier Alan Winde says it’s unacceptable that the EFF did not abide by their own agreement with the police and the City of Cape Town regarding the Brackenfell High School protest. The conditions were confirmed earlier in a meeting with all role-players. The EFF protested for the third time at Brackenfell High School over allegations of racism. Protestors went on the rampage after police dispersed them with stun grenades when they ignored the deadline to end their protest outside the school by 3pm. Grass fields were set alight and buildings and traffic lights stoned. Winde says he is also concerned that the Cape Party, which had not applied for a permit to gather and whose members were clearly there for political ends, also arrived to protest.