Finance Minister Tito Mboweni has defended his decision to appoint former political journalist Ranjeni Munusamy despite some witnesses at the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture implicating her in wrongdoing. Responding to an oral question asked by Economic Freedom Fighters  Chief Whip Floyd Shivambu in Parliament, Mboweni reiterated that Munusamy was appointed according to the law. The EFF has reiterated its call for the appointment of Journalist Ranjeni Munusamy, to the Department of Finance by Minister Tito Mboweni, to be reversed. #sabcnews — SAfm news (@SAfmnews) October 25, 2020  The DA in parliament has joined calls for Finance Minister Tito Mboweni to swiftly reverse his decision in the controversial appointment of former senior journalist Ranjeni Munusamy. The EFF earlier gave Mboweni an ultimatum to reverse his decision to appoint Munusamy #SABCNEWS pic.twitter.com/oseOEyL0gM — SAfm news (@SAfmnews) October 23, 2020  Munusamy is accused of receiving more than R143 000 from a secret slush fund allegedly used by state security crime intelligence officers to finance her vehicle. However, Mboweni says Munusamy’s explanation about allegations against her is enough for him not to doubt her competency. He, however, says should new evidence be provided to him disputing her version, Munusamy will be shown the door. “I have satisfied myself in terms of the facts before me that, until such time that any findings have been done -I don’t see…in fact I have gone through the matter quite systematically. When I was interviewing her for the job I asked her questions regarding that and I am satisfied that she can work in the office and be able to do her job very well. If she was going to be found somehow to have committed wrongdoings somewhere, she will obviously be frog-marched out of my office. But for now, I have no reason not to work with her. She is highly competent. She is highly connected politically.” In the video below, EFF says Munusamy’s appointment by the Finance Minister is reckless and irresponsible:  