As coronavirus (COVID-19) infections continue to rise in the Eastern Cape, health authorities are intensifying the fight against the pandemic by meeting with health workers, organised labour, religious leaders, civil society and businesses. Their aim is to ensure that everyone plays a role in pushing back the rise in infections. Health Minister Dr Zweli Mkhize, Co-operative Governance Minister Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, and Social Development Minister Lindiwe Zulu will join Health MEC Sindiswa Gomba in creating awareness on the dangers of the pandemic. Latest COVID-19 stats for SA: As of today, the number of #COVID19 cases is 767 679 with 2 270 new cases identified.The number of tests conducted to date is 5 290 966 with 21 904 new tests conducted since the last report. Our recoveries now stand at 710 099 which translates to a recovery rate of 92,5% pic.twitter.com/MTsOmNgjbs — Department of Health (@HealthZA) November 22, 2020  Eastern Cape Health Department spokesperson Sizwe Kupelo says everyone needs to go back to basics, by washing hands, wearing masks and social distancing. “It’s very important for people to take this matter seriously because it is and the numbers are growing. Our biggest worry is if people are not participating, they not getting on board to support our efforts, we are going to have a problem. There is going to be a high power delegation in the province to deal with these issues but arrangements are still being made.” Large gatherings as well as the overloading of public transport remain a challenge in the province. Provincial Health Spokesperson Siyanda Manana says a number of interventions have been implemented to ensure compliance. “In terms of the tavern owners, where there are no compliance officers, we are going to introduce that so that each and every tavern there are compliance officers. So that there is strict adherence to the regulations which government has put in place, that is also applicable to church as well,” says Manana. Dr Zweli Mkhize discusses the latest COVID-19 statistics: 