African National Congress (ANC) Secretary-General, Ace Magashule, has publicly apologised for the utterances he made two weeks ago in Bloemfontein while addressing his supporters after his court appearance. This is after a group of ANC members at the Ngaka Modiri Molema region in the North West complained about his comments and requested him to retract them. During his address, Magashule said the ANC in the North West could not function without the former premier, Supra Mahumapelo. “They have divided the North West. We can’t fix anything in North West without comrade Supra being there. Whether you like him or not, it’s ok. Hold on Mahumapelo, hold on.” Magashule addresses supporters outside court:  These are the comments that angered some ANC members in the North West. They say such utterances are further sowing divisions within the party. Members petitioned the ANC leadership, during their visit to Mahikeng on Monday. They requested a retraction from Magashule. The party’s National Working Committee descended on the province to address issues ahead of the Branch, Regional, and Provincial Conference. Branch member at the Ramotshere Moiloa Municipality, Dinah Pule, read a memorandum received by Magashule. “We call upon the NEC and NWC to urgently call upon the Secretary-General, comrade Ace Magashule, to retract the statement made in Bloemfontein after his appearance in court while addressing those who went to support him that the ANC in the North West can only function on the basis of the presence of comrade Supra Mahumapelo. His statement is wrong as it implies that an individual is bigger than the ANC. It has the potential to create divisions and can impact negatively on the organisation.” When receiving the petition, on behalf of the party’s national leadership, Magashule apologised. “No individual can be above a structure. So, if I said Supra is above, it is a wrong thing which I might have said. The IPC, the regional structures, the branches of those collectives are the most important including the branch members of the African National Congress. So, my apologies for having said anything which elevates an individual more than a collective.” Party members have also requested the national leadership to reaffirm the full powers of the Interim Provincial Committee appointed in the province.