Western Cape Minister of Education Debbie Schäfer says the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) cancelled their meeting with her which was scheduled for Thursday to discuss the party’s concerns about Brackenfell High School in Cape Town. She says EFF representatives have informed her that they are too busy preparing for their protest on Friday to spare an hour to discuss solutions to the alleged reason for the protest. The EFF have been protesting at the school over allegations of racism after only white learners attended a private matric farewell party. Schäfer says it is very clear that the EFF is not interested in discussing and resolving their concerns. “Their only intent is to intimidate and disrupt schooling, adding more anxiety to our learners who have had an extremely difficult year. We are aware that EFF leaders have been making repeated threats of violence on both social media and on radio. The police are aware of these and are investigating them. However, I urge residents of Brackenfell not to come to the school on Friday, except for parents taking their children to school and fetching them. The EFF desperately wants a confrontation outside the school. Do not give into their tactics. SAPS and other law enforcement authorities are making extensive preparations.” Schäfer condemns violent clashes outside Brackenfell High:   Fighters and Ground Forces of the EFF in the Western Cape are ready to honor the invitation on Friday at Brackenfell High School at 10h00. No one will control the movement of Black People and dictate where we can and cannot go. #EFFInBrackenfell pic.twitter.com/DrZn9PXu3t — Economic Freedom Fighters (@EFFSouthAfrica) November 18, 2020  Police prevent PAC members from protesting at Brackenfell High Meanwhile, earlier on Thursday police forced a group of  Pan Africanist Congress (PAC) members, who attempted to protest outside the Brackenfell High School in Cape Town, to return to the local train station. The group began their protest at the station, before trying to march to the school. Protests near the school have been ongoing over an alleged whites-only matric party a few weeks ago. Police members were seen using shields and stun grenades to push the PAC members back to the station. The group was forcefully moved from the intersection leading to the school all the way back to the train station where they started their protest. One of the PAC members involved in the demonstrations, Zethu Mdudo, says the police’s actions show that some areas in South Africa are more protected than others. She says they will be returning to the area on Friday, to support the EFF’s planned protest outside the school.