African National Congress (ANC) Secretary-General Ace Magashule has expressed disappointment at the perceived arrogance of the SABC board to continue with the retrenchment process at the public broadcaster. He says the ANC is monitoring developments and is engaging with Communications Minister Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams as she handles the matter. ANC Secretary-General Ace Magashule speaks about retrenchments at the SABC:  Ndabeni-Abrahams has called for calm while her department intervenes in the SABC‘s intention to retrench about 400 permanent staff by the end of the year. Speaking in an exclusive interview with the SABC, Magashule said there is no need for retrenchments. “As the ANC, we have our deployee, the Minister of Communications. We have engaged with her and I know that she’s very clear there is no need for retrenchments at the SABC and I don’t know why some board members are so intransigent and I think they show some arrogance. I don’t know why they are so arrogant. It’s clear what they want to do is to commercialise, privatise SABC which is against the ANC position.” SABC board chairperson confirms retrenchments are continuing:  Earlier, SABC Board Chairperson Bongumusa Makhathini criticised his deputy, Mamodupi Mohlala-Mulaudzi, for speaking out against job cuts at the SABC. Mohlala-Mulaudzi says five board members are opposed to the retrenchment of 400 permanent staff at the public broadcaster. The SABC board has three executive members and 11 non-executive members. Mohlala-Mulaudzi’s comments come after SABC management confirmed that it’s continuing with retrenchments. Mohlala-Mulaudzi says, “Those of us who against the (section) 189, have taken the stance that we have taken because we do not want a blackout at the SABC. And in view that yesterday, we posted a negative result in relation to the growth of the institution. That in itself, coupled with the blackout, will really spiral down a wrong path and we don’t want that to happen because at the end of the day, everybody loses, the SABC loses, the staff of the SABC loses, the board of the SABC loses.” Makhathini has acknowledged that some board members are opposed to the retrenchments but says the board has mandated management to implement the restructuring and his deputy has to respect that resolution. 