The Buffalo City Metro has urged retailers to be vigilant ahead of the upcoming Black Friday sales, amid a rise in COVID-19 infections in the Eastern Cape. Thousands of consumers are expected to flock to shopping malls to take advantage of discounts. There are fears that this might lead to potential COVID-19 super spreader events. Municipal spokesperson Samkelo Ngwenya says they are working closely with stakeholders, including management of shopping centres, to mitigate the spread of the virus. “We call upon businesses to exercise caution, to ensure that staff and customers wear masks and that they must screen everyone and enforce social distancing during the course of the shopping experience this week. It was noted that the upcoming Black Friday shopping day is a possible super-spreader event if it’s not managed properly. We’ll also increase our safety operations on the road to ensure that they are adhering to all the regulations and compliance issues of lockdown level one” Eastern Cape gears for second COVID-19 wave:  Health authorities intensify the fight against COVID-19 Meanwhile, as coronavirus (COVID-19) infections continue to rise in the Eastern Cape, health authorities are intensifying the fight against the pandemic by meeting with health workers, organised labour, religious leaders, civil society and businesses. Their aim is to ensure that everyone plays a role in pushing back the rise in infections. Health Minister Dr Zweli Mkhize, Co-operative Governance Minister Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, and Social Development Minister Lindiwe Zulu will join Health MEC Sindiswa Gomba in creating awareness on the dangers of the pandemic. Eastern Cape Health Department spokesperson Sizwe Kupelo says everyone needs to go back to basics, by washing hands, wearing masks and social distancing. “It’s very important for people to take this matter seriously because it is and the numbers are growing. Our biggest worry is if people are not participating, they not getting on board to support our efforts, we are going to have a problem. There is going to be a high power delegation in the province to deal with these issues but arrangements are still being made.” Large gatherings as well as the overloading of public transport remain a challenge in the province. Provincial Health Spokesperson Siyanda Manana says a number of interventions have been implemented to ensure compliance. “In terms of the tavern owners, where there are no compliance officers, we are going to introduce that so that each and every tavern there are compliance officers. So that there is strict adherence to the regulations which government has put in place, that is also applicable to church as well,” says Manana. #COVID19 Statistics in SA as at 24 November. Use the COVID Alert SA app to protect yourself, your loved ones and your community. Start using this privacy preserving app today. Add your phone to the fight! Download the Covid Alert SA app now! https://t.co/8YKEqaiiRF pic.twitter.com/cnp10RzTPZ — Dr Zweli Mkhize (@DrZweliMkhize) November 24, 2020  As of today, the total number of confirmed #COVID19 cases is 772 252 the total number of deaths is 21 083 and the total number of recoveries is 716 444. pic.twitter.com/yn8svI99Ff — Dr Zweli Mkhize (@DrZweliMkhize) November 24, 2020  Eastern Cape concerned about the possibility of a second wave of COVID-19: 