With the possibility of retrenchments heightened by the current lockdown, some South African companies have come under fire for allegedly using COVID-19 as an excuse to retrench employees for illegitimate reasons. Economic disruptions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and the current lockdown has resulted in many companies having to downscale or close their doors permanently – bringing with it large scale retrenchments. According to National Treasury, more than 7 million people could lose their jobs as a result of the outbreak in the country. This horrific reality has already knocked on the door of 40-year-old Warren Michael Joshua, a breadwinner in his large family. Come the first of July, Joshua will be unemployed, a stress that is far more worrying that contracting the coronavirus. “They said that across the board they are shortening the expenses for our company. Many people, like a third of our staff have been retrenched. They are uncertain whether business will be coming in or not. My motivation has dropped, I am not so eager to do work anymore.  It will have a drastic impact as we have a big household and I am one of the breadwinners in the house.” Senior Associate in Employment Practice at the Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr law firm, Bheki Nhlapho, says retrenchment processes during the national lockdown remain the same. He says the firm has already dealt with a case where an employer did not follow procedure and retrenched employees for reasons not related to financial trouble caused by COVID-19. “I came across a case where the employer would have abused the COVID-19 pandemic, in such a case, the test is – is there a genuine reason for retrenchment. Even if you retrench in COVID-19, you must be able to discharge the onus to show that I have no option but to cut my workforce. The important thing is that the CCMA have opened their doors. Their biggest role is to ensure there is no abuse of process.” Nhlapo adds that employers experiencing financial pressure as a result of the pandemic need to ensure that the correct protocols for retrenchment are followed and the rights of employees are not infringed. “The only difference is that employers, before resorting to retrenchments would have conceded the available funding options from the government. That is the utilisation of UIF, reducing employees’ hours, employees going on unpaid leave. In these options from the government would cater for that. The employer would need to give valid reasons.” Increased retrenchments mean fewer people are contributing towards monthly taxes and economic activity drops. National Treasury has predicted economic contraction could be anything between 5 to 12%. Economist Dr Pieter Le Roux says job losses in the country are likely to see South Africa experiencing an economic depression, one that was last seen 90 years ago.  He says the whole combination of impacts on the economy could be severe. “It is going to be a very deep recession and most likely a depression if it’s not rightly handled”, Le Roux adds. Your Name Your Last Name email@email.com +1 304 104201 SA COVID-19 ECONOMIC STIMULUS sabcnews.com | SABC News channel | SABC Radio news President Cyril Ramaphosa has announced a R500 billion economic stimulus package to help South Africa cope with the COVID-19 pandemic. WHERE DID THE MONEY COME FROM? R500 BILLION HIGHLIGHTS WHAT WILL THE MONEY BE USED FOR? Unemployment Insurance Fund Institutions include:  World Bank  International Monetary Fund  BRICS New Development Bank  African Development Bank International Institutions Existing Budget Around R130 billion repatriated from current budget. Healthcare Relief of  social distress Support to companies Municipalities Protective gear for heath workers Community screening and testing Ventilators Increase child support grant by R500 for 6 months  COVID-19 social distress grant of R350 for 6 months Distribution of food parcels to 250 000 homes in within two weeks New model for food assistance through vouchers and cash transfers Emergency water Sanitation of public transport Food and shelter for the homeless. Loan guarantee scheme Tax ﻿relief Unemployment Insurance Fund R500 billion amounts to 10% of the Gross Domestic Product. Began in mid-March. Included tax relief, release of disaster relief funds, emergency procurement, wage support through Unemployment Insurance Fund and funding to small businesses. Aims to stabilise the economy, address ﻿extreme decline in supply and demand and protect jobs. Social relief and economic support package of R500 billion. Economic strategy to drive recovery  as the country emerges from COVID-19 pandemic. 3rd Phase 1st Phase 2nd Phase (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); As the death toll in South Africa swells and the lockdown continues, economists warn that consumers should brace themselves for a turbulent ride. 