EDITORIAL NOTE: An earlier version of this story did not properly contextualise the actions of police in the moments leading up to George Floyd’s death. It has since been updated to include such information. Hundreds of mourners streamed into a Texas church on Monday to honour African American George Floyd, who died at the hands of police two weeks ago, as pressure mounted in Congress and across the United States for sweeping reforms to the justice system. George Floyd honoured in a memorial in his hometown of Houston:  Protestors’ anger over the May 25 death of Floyd, 46, is giving way to a growing determination to make his case a turning point in race relations and a lightning rod for change in the way police departments function across the country. Floyd died after Derek Chauvin, the white officer accused of killing him, suffocated him by kneeling on his neck for nine minutes in Minneapolis. A bystander’s cellphone captured the scene as Floyd pleaded with the officer, choking out the words, “I can’t breathe.” His death was ruled a homicide and Chauvin charged with second-degree and third-degree murder as well as second-degree manslaughter. The incident triggered two weeks of protests in US cities, deepening a political crisis for President Donald Trump, who repeatedly threatened to order active duty troops onto the streets to put an end to bursts of looting and vandalism. In Houston, where Floyd grew up, American flags fluttered along the route to the Fountain of Praise church as hundreds of people, wearing masks to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus, formed a procession. Some bowed their heads, while others made the sign of the cross when they reached Floyd’s casket. “I’m glad he got the send-off he deserved,” Marcus Williams, a 46-year-old black resident of Houston, said outside the church. “I want the police killings to stop. I want them to reform the process to achieve justice, and stop the killing.” Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden, who is challenging the Republican Trump in a November 3 election, met Floyd’s relatives for more than an hour in Houston on Monday, according to the family’s lawyer Benjamin Crump. “He listened, heard their pain, and shared in their woe,” Crump said on Twitter. Floyd will be buried on Tuesday. In Washington, Democrats in Congress unveiled legislation that would make lynching a hate crime and allow victims of brutality and their families to sue police for damages in civil court, ending a legal doctrine known as qualified immunity. Their 134-page bill also would ban chokeholds and require the use of body cameras by federal law enforcement officers, restrict the use of lethal force, and facilitate independent probes of police departments that show patterns of such behaviour. Police killings have sparked calls for reforms and renewed calls for racial equality as the United States reopens after weeks of unprecedented lockdowns for the coronavirus pandemic. US protestors demand reform in the justice system:  Meanwhile, bail for Chauvin, was raised to $1.25 million, from $1 million, during a court hearing in Minneapolis on Monday, Minnesota’s Star Tribune reported. Chauvin appeared on video link, handcuffed in an orange jumpsuit and sitting at a small table. Three other officers have been charged with aiding and abetting second-degree murder and aiding and abetting second-degree manslaughter. All four officers have been fired. Tensions have been running high in the Minnesota city. A majority of the members on the city council pledged on Sunday to abolish the police department in favor of a community-led safety model, a step that was unthinkable before Floyd’s death.