Umlazi residents in Durban, in KwaZulu-Natal, are outraged over the alleged lack of transparency in the distribution of food parcel vouchers by a local councillor. Several families, who are struggling to make ends meet during the lockdown, have been relying on donations to put food on the table. Community members of ward 80 say their councillor, Mthokozisi Nojiyeza, has undermined them by failing to explain how the process of vouchers distribution works. Nhlanhla Dube, who is a community leader, says many elderly and child-headed households did not benefit. Dube wants to know how it a decision on who receives help is made. “At ward 80, we have an issue, our councillor Mthokozisi Nojiyeza. There are food parcels and vouchers showed up in our community yet not all of us who have received these vouchers and food parcels. We heard that one needs to enlist to get a voucher or food parcel yet we discover that the community doesn’t know. We went to the councillor’s office to get some answers concerning this. We found that the councillor is giving out food parcels to his family members and companions,” explains Dube. Nojiyeza has denied the allegations, calling it character assassination. “This is not about community, they are individuals within the organisation who are using this so hardship of lockdown to achieve their political agenda against councillors. There are no councillors who are eating food vouchers. The community must be clear that there are individuals who are using this lockdown to achieve their agenda,” says Nojiyeza. KwaZulu-Natal Social Development MEC Nonhlanhla Khoza is urging councillors to be transparent in working with the communities they serve. “As social development, we would love to attend our gratitude and our appreciation from all stakeholders especially from service providers, business people and municipalities who contributed during this time of COVID-19. As much as they contribute, we would love to urge our councillors, this COVID-19 has come and arrived, it’s doesn’t have eyes to see who falls under which political party. Let’s us comply with that,” urges Khoza. Below is a graphic of the lockdown regulations: sabcnews.com |  SABC News channel | SABC Radio news LOCKDOWN REGULATIONS | THE LEGALITY "The exercise of public power must ... comply  with the Constitution, which  is the supreme law and the doctrine of legality, which is part of that law.” sabcnews.com |  SABC News channel | SABC Radio news LOCKDOWN REGULATIONS | THE LEGALITY That the national state of disaster be declared unconstitutional unlawful and invalid;  That all the regulations promulgated by the Minister be declared unconstitutional, unlawful and invalid;    That all gatherings be declared lawful alternatively be allowed subject to certain conditions;  That all businesses, services and shops be allowed to operate subject to reasonable precautionary measures of utilizing masks, gloves and hand sanitizers.  This relief was, however, only sought as an alternative and made subject to consultation with the Essential Services Committee contemplated in Section 70 of the Labour Relations Act, 66 of 1995. THE APPLICANT CLAIMS THE FOLLOWING sabcnews.com |  SABC News channel | SABC Radio news LOCKDOWN REGULATIONS | THE LEGALITY - Judge J Davis "It must immediately be apparent that some of the relief claimed has to a larger or lesser extent, either been overtaken or, at least been impacted on, by subsequent events.  These are the promulgation of the latest set of regulations signed by the Minister and promulgated during the course e of the hearing of this application, being the regulations published in government Notice 608 of 28 May 2020, the "Alert Level 3 Regulations" which added Chapter 4 to the existing regulations." sabcnews.com |  SABC News channel | SABC Radio news LOCKDOWN REGULATIONS | THE LEGALITY - Judge J Davis "We know that these measures are taking a heavy tall on societies  and economies, just as they did in China.  All countries musts strike a fine balance between protecting health, minimizing economic and social disruption and respecting human rights . . . . Let me summarise it in four key areas: " 1: Prepare and be ready 2: Detect, protect and treat 3: Reduce transmission 4: Innovate and learn sabcnews.com |  SABC News channel | SABC Radio news LOCKDOWN REGULATIONS | THE LEGALITY - Judge J Davis "The Minister, however, did not in her declaration seek to rely on section 27(1 )(a) of the DMA and the issue of insufficiency of existing legislation. She relied on the following factors for the declaration of a national state of disaster:  The magnitude and severity of the COVID 19 "outbreak" The declaration of the outbreak as a pandemic by the WHO The classification thereof as a national disaster by Dr Tau as referred to in paragraph 4.4 above The "need to augment the existing measures undertaken by organs of state to deal with the pandemic" and The recognition of the existence of special circumstances warranting such a declaration." sabcnews.com |  SABC News channel | SABC Radio news LOCKDOWN REGULATIONS | THE LEGALITY - Judge J Davis "It is unfortunate that the Minister chose not to enlighten the court what the above mentioned "special circumstances" are, but left it to the Director General to make generalized statements. Neither the Minister no the Director-General elaborated on the shortcomings in "existing measures undertaken by the organs of state".  A somewhat disturbing fact is that there was no time delay since the declaration by Dr Tau and that of the Minister during which such shortcomings could have manifested themselves as the Minister's declaration followed that of Dr Tau on the same day. In fact, they were published in the same Government Gazette, No 43096 of 15 March 2020." sabcnews.com |  SABC News channel | SABC Radio news LOCKDOWN REGULATIONS | THE LEGALITY - Judge J Davis "The applicants however did not attack the declaration on any of the abovementioned grounds or shortcomings but based their attack on the alleged irrational reaction to the corona virus itself and the number of deaths caused thereby." sabcnews.com |  SABC News channel | SABC Radio news LOCKDOWN REGULATIONS | THE LEGALITY - Judge J Davis "I find that, in an overwhelming number of instances the Minister have not demonstrated that the limitation of the Constitutional rights already mentioned, have been justified in the context of section 36 of the Constitution." sabcnews.com |  SABC News channel | SABC Radio news LOCKDOWN REGULATIONS | THE LEGALITY - Judge J Davis "The regulations promulgated by the Minister of Cooperation and Traditional Affairs ("the Minister") in terms of section 27(2) of the Disaster Managemenent Act 57 of 2002 are declared unconstitutional and invalid. ORDER | UNCONSTITUTIONAL, INVALID sabcnews.com |  SABC News channel | SABC Radio news LOCKDOWN REGULATIONS | THE LEGALITY - Judge J Davis " The declaration of invalidity is suspended until such time as the Minister, after consultation with the relevant cabinet minister/s, review, amend and re­-publish the regulations mentioned above (save for regulations 36, 38, 39 )(d) and (e) and 41 of the regulations promulgated in respect of Alert Level 3) with due consideration to the limitation each regulation has on the rights guaranteed in the Bill of Rights contained in the Constitution. " ORDER | DECLARATION OF ﻿INVALIDITY sabcnews.com |  SABC News channel | SABC Radio news LOCKDOWN REGULATIONS | THE LEGALITY - Judge J Davis "The Minister is Directed to comply with the process ordered in paragraph 2 above within 14 (Fourteen) business days from date of this order, or such longer time as this court may, on good grounds shown, allow and to report such compliance to this court." ORDER | COMPLY WITHIN ﻿14 DAYS sabcnews.com |  SABC News channel | SABC Radio news LOCKDOWN REGULATIONS | THE LEGALITY - Judge J Davis "During the period of suspension, the regulations published in Government Gazette No 43364 of 28 May 2020 as Chapter 4 of the regulations designated as: "Alert Level 3", shall apply. " ORDER | PERIOD OF SUSPENSION sabcnews.com |  SABC News channel | SABC Radio news LOCKDOWN REGULATIONS | THE LEGALITY - Judge J Davis "The regulations pertaining to the prohibition on the sale of tobacco and related products is excluded from this order and is postponed sine die, pending the finalization of case no 21688/2020 in this court. " ORDER | TOBACCO sabcnews.com |  SABC News channel | SABC Radio news LOCKDOWN REGULATIONS | THE LEGALITY - Judge J Davis "The Minister is ordered to pay the costs of the first and second applicants. The amicus curiae shall pay its own costs." ORDER | ﻿Costs (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));