The African National Congress (ANC) has expressed concern over Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng’s remarks, expressing his apparent support for “apartheid Israel.” In an interview with the Jerusalem Times, the governing ANC says the esteemed Chief Justice entered the arena of political commentary, which may make him vulnerable should he have to adjudicate a human rights matter in the future. Jerusalem Post: “Chief Justice of South Africa Mogoeng Mogoeng has lamented his country’s adoption of a lopsided attitude toward the Israel-Palestinian conflict and said that it would have greater influence if it displayed a more balanced approach.” https://t.co/iLOku0w7Gp — Pierre de Vos (@pierredevos) June 25, 2020  He also openly supported the actions of the State of Israel, actions condemned by the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) on numerous occasions and contemptuous behaviour towards the human rights of the people of Palestine.” The ANC says it was rather unfortunate for the Chief Justice to state that: “South African government policy was binding upon himself and that he was not seeking to reject it” but then clearly and openly opposing it “as a citizen”. The party says South Africa is a secular state and all its citizens, including members of the judiciary, are bound by the Constitution. The ANC says while it has respect for the independence of the judiciary, the party has consistently expressed courageously through its successive resolutions that the contemporary State of Israel is an Apartheid State. @MYANC statement in support of the #Palestinian #struggle and an open statement to the #ChiefJustice #MogoengMogoeng https://t.co/hzOUvNN8ag — Aslam Bava (@AslamBava) June 25, 2020  “We support human rights and we stand with the oppressed Palestinians who include Christians of the Holy Land, the residents of Jerusalem and Bethlehem who are living under Israeli Apartheid.” On June 24, the Secretary-General of the United Nations (UN) stated that the annexation of 30% of the West Bank settlement by Israel is a gross violation of international law. “The annexation is nothing more than a land grab and theft,” says the ANC. The governing party says it will continue to work with all sectors of South Africa in opposing the occupation, annexation and colonisation of Palestinian land. It accuses Chief Justice Mogoeng of turning a human rights matter into a religious argument. “The ANC in its 53rd National Conference expressed its unequivocal support for the Palestinian people in their struggle for self-determination and unapologetic in our resolution that the Palestinians are the victims and the oppressed in the conflict with Israel,” says the ANC.