Deputy President David Mabuza has once again called on South Africans to abandon the culture of non-payment for services. He says while this practice was employed to fight apartheid, it is no longer appropriate in the new democratic dispensation. He was replying to questions in the National Assembly that related to among others the financial problems faced by Eskom. He also added his voice to calls for an end to gender-based violence. Eskom warned consumers recently to use electricity sparingly as it had lost four of its units due to breakages. The company has started implementing power cuts in certain areas. The Deputy President has told Parliament that he is satisfied with the measures Eskom has taken to avoid even bigger blackouts. In the video below, Deputy President Mabuza answers questions in Parliament

“We are pleased that Eskom leadership has put a clear maintenance plan in place to ensure energy availability is kept at a level that will avoid unexpected electricity supply disruption. We are pleased that Eskom has placed necessary measures to keep the lights on”. Mabuza says that one way to ensure that Eskom can continue to provide reliable electricity is for communities to start paying. He urged members to go to their communities and encourage them to start paying for services, including electricity. The Deputy President also spoke very strongly against the continuing acts of violence against women. He said it is time to end this scourge so that women can also start enjoying freedom and liberty without fear. He also outlined some of the measures government has taken to provide relief to farmers who have been affected by drought throughout the country. He added the declaration of a disaster area by the Minister of Cooperative Governance allowed an amount of R139 million to be given as relief for farmers. “The Northern Cape will be given R36 million of that money.  They are in the process of finalising the paperwork. Western Cape R25 million, Eastern Cape R35 million, Limpopo R18,5 million, Mpumalanga R12.5 million, North West R8 million and KwaZulu-Natal R4 million. Nothing so far for Gauteng and Free State”.