Five schools in the Free State are being investigated for possible COVID-19 infections. Teachers at four of the schools have been tested after they exhibited symptoms and 15 learners from Heatherdale Secondary School in Bloemfontein, are still awaiting their results. Meanwhile, Congress of South African Students (Cosas) continues their push for the shutdown of schools across the province. This, to force the Education Department to test all learners and teachers before they return to school. It is still not clear how the 2020 academic year will be completed. The coronavirus outbreak has made the future of completing the year look dim. Although safety comes first, many have expressed that it is equally important to secure the future of learners. Matriculants from Ntediseng Secondary School in Botshabelo have expressed mixed reactions. One learner says: “I think that’s a great idea since we do not know whether we are positive or not. I am worried but I am worried about my life too.” Another learner expresses frustration: “I feel pain because during this time we have dreams and we want to achieve more so when Cosas closes schools it is very painful because when you have a dream you want to succeed in life. I’m worried about my health but I’m very worried about my academic year.” A third learner says: “I’m happy because Cosas have helped us, because we don’t know if we have corona or not and we are not tested.” Member of Free State Cosas PEC, Kananelo Monyaki says they are not backing down. “On Thursday we will be having a meeting with the MEC of Education Tate Makgoe until then we will continue shutting down schools until we find a way to control the pandemic in schools,” says Monyaki. To date, two positive cases from schools in the Free State are learners from Gauteng and KwaZulu Natal provinces. Both learners had gone home to their respective provinces for the duration of the lockdown when schools were closed. Meanwhile, Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi says no teacher or learner has been infected with COVID-19 in all public schools in the province since they reopened. Lesufi was responding to the continuing criticism of the government’s decision to reopen schools as the numbers of COVID-19 infections keep rising. At least 56 Gauteng schools were closed during the week after positive cases of COVID-19 were detected. In the video below, Panyaza Lesufi briefs the media on efforts by Gauteng Education to ensure the safety of learners and teachers at schools: 