Thirty-one schools across the Eastern Cape, mostly in Buffalo City, have been closed after 20 people tested positive for COVID-19. Fifeteen teachers, three learners and two non-teaching staff tested positive. Spokesperson for the Department of Education in the province, Loyiso Pulumani , says some were closed for cleansing and tracing. He says there is no need to panic, but any person experiencing symptoms should report it to the school. “Cleaning or fogging does kill the disease on the school surfaces. Our school support teams have been trained and capacitated with PPE and cleaning agents to attend to any case that necessitates closure of the school. Schools do not need to be closed for an indefinite amount of time as cleaning occurs. After advice from the Health Department on who needs to isolate and cleaning has been done, schooling can resume. Adherence to these operating procedures is non-negotiable.” Teachers in KZN test positive for COVID-19 KwaZulu-Natal Education MEC Kwazi Mshengu says the three schools that have been temporarily closed in the province due to teachers who tested positive for COVID-19 are being decontaminated and will reopen soon. Apollo Secondary School in Chatsworth, Clairwood Secondary and Savannah Park Secondary schools closed a few days after they reopened due to positive cases of COVID-19. “The first two days have been really proceeding fairly well in the province, we are quite happy that a number of schools are reporting no glitches across the province. We have closed a few schools and we have allowed the department of health to take over in terms of testing the educators and also disinfecting schools,” says Mshengu. In Bloemfontein in the Free State, a learner has also tested positive for COVID-19 prompting the quarantine of 19 of other grade 12 learners. In the video below the details are provided:  Gauteng Education Head Office confirms COVID-19 case Two staff members at the Gauteng Education Head Office have tested positive for COVID-19. The affected employees and their families are receiving support and care in accordance with COVID-19 protocols. In the video below the Gauteng Department of Education spokesperson gives details: