Government has reportedly drafted a plan to fund the restructuring of South African Airways (SAA), if a business rescue plan for the struggling state-owned airline is adopted. Last December SAA entered business rescue and administrators took over the running of the airline, while working on a plan to save the business. In a draft plan the government has reportedly agreed to make a working capital injection, which the administrators estimated at not less than R2 billion, fund employee lay-offs, and make an allocation of at least R600 million towards the repayment of general concurrent creditors. No more funds for SAA business rescue:  In April the Government told SAA’s business rescue practitioners that it would not give a further R10 billion funding for the bankrupt airline, this is as the government fights the COVID-19 pandemic. Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan said the government will not provide any extra funding for the business rescue. Gordhan also says lending guarantees will also not be provided in respect of the business rescue process, as the pandemic has stretched the country’s resources. SAA was placed under business rescue in December last year. The practitioners are yet to publish their rescue plan. Confusion over SAA’s plans to fly under level 3 lockdown:    South African Airways FACT SHEET Debt SAA has been accumulating debt since 2012.  The national carrier has debt ﻿of about R12.7 billion, consisting of R9.2 billion of legacy debt. In 2020 SAA received  R3.2 billion from the Development Bank of South Africa. Bailout * As of Sep ﻿18, 2019 Flights Shutdown SAA suspends ﻿domestic flights to Durban, East London and Port Elizabeth. Strike In 2019 SAA employees embarked on a strike demanding an 8% salary increase.  SAA management agreed to postpone retrenchments until further notice. SAA Board Numsa together with the South African Cabin Crew Association calls for the immediate resignation of the entire SAA Board. Sale of Aircarft SAA puts up nine of its Airbus aircraft and 15 spare engines for sale.  (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));