The South African National Defense Force (SANDF) says it is proud of its members for maintaining discipline during the lockdown and that they’ve not fired a single bullet recklessly. Ten people are said to have died at the hands of police and soldiers since the start of the lockdown. The death of Collins Khosa in Alexandra, north of Johannesburg, allegedly at the hands of SANDF members, is the most controversial and still being investigated. The SANDF is assisting police fighting an invisible enemy, COVID-19. The army says the deployment of soldiers is improving their relations and communication with communities. But this transition was not easy. SANDF Chaplain General, Monwabisi Jamangile, says they have learnt how to improve themselves. “We have learnt that we will have to improve ourselves in dealing with our people because we don’t know the future wars, how they will look like and to deal with the people. It’s the most difficult thing as a soldier but we will improve on that one.” General Jamangile says the COVID-19 war has to be fought on all fronts. “Faith groups this is the time to go out and practice our ministry by presence. It’s not the time to sit in our synagogues and churches and leave our people as they are continuously dying. We need to go out and assist our people and assist and preach the gospel of how to look after ourselves.” The SANDF says it is proud of its members for maintaining discipline during the national lockdown:  Jamangile says the Khosa’s death is now being investigated by police. “Without going into the nitty-gritty of which I am not competent about, but I know those three things; the police, the military ombud, the court of law will be handling the issue of Mr. Khosa. May his soul rest in peace.” In the video below, Collins Khosa’s family reacts to the SANDF inquiry exonerating soldiers.  Police national spokesperson Brigadier Vish Naidoo has confirmed that suspects in the Khosa case have already appeared in court. The SANDF has also had casualties. Three soldiers were killed in crashes while chasing suspects fleeing from lockdown roadblocks. The graph below provides details of how you can report brutality against security personnel.  (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));