Civic organisation Bishop Lavis Action Community (BLAC) on the Cape Flats in Cape Town says it will protest at various schools in the area to create awareness about the spread of COVID-19. The group says it is unhappy with the national and provincial government’s strategy to fight the pandemic in poor working class communities. In a statement, BLAC says politicians are playing with the lives of their children. The protest comes as the Western Cape Education Department says schools will reopen on Monday, despite an announcement by the national Department of Basic Education that schools will only reopen on June 8 for Grade 7 and 12 learners. BLAC says COVID-19 has exposed inequalities in the country’s education systems and schools are not ready to handle a potential crisis any time soon. Mixed reaction on the reopening of schools:  Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schafer says her department can no longer allow schools to operate in a state of uncertainty. Schafer says, “We have been engaged in discussions at a national level over the weekend and were awaiting the Minister’s announcement. Given that this has now been postponed, we can no longer allow our schools to hover in a state of uncertainty. Western Cape schools have made a huge effort to get ready and this has been confirmed by an independent agency. Western Cape schools shall accordingly be open for learners…” “The week will be used primarily for the orientation of learners into the COVID-19 learning environment,” added Schafer. Basic Education Minister, Angie Motshekga is expected to brief the media this morning, in Sunrise Park near Rustenburg, in the North West to  give reasons why schools could not open on Monday.   Department of Basic Education’s proposed plans for learner safety amid COVID - 19 COVID-19 | SA's BACK TO SCHOOL PLAN Social Distancing No hugging No handshaking Direct contact must be avoided Only two learners per desk Cloth masks to be worn by learners and teachers at all times Extra classes should be arranged in small groups that maintain social distancing. No mass public events No sports matches  No choral practice  No festivals  No eisteddfods Classroom arrangements Limit movement of learners between classes  Sanitise hands on entering of classrooms  Sanitise classrooms prior to the start of school day  No clustering of desks in classrooms BACK TO SCHOOL Everyone must sanitise before entering vehicle Distance between learners  must be managed Masks must be worn throughout the school day Transport Screening and testing Screening of learners and educators to be done at the reopening of schools, starting with Grades 7 and 12. Temperature checks to be administered. Learners or staff members who present with raised temperatures to be considered for isolation and testing. @SABCNEWS sabcnews.com |  SABC News channel | SABC Radio news Source: Department of Basic Education (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));