The coronavirus pandemic has played havoc with a number of South African customs and traditions. The lockdown has led to the suspension of the male Xhosa initiation winter season. It has been a disappointment for thousands who were ready to undergo the rite of passage. But, an unintended consequence of the suspension is zero deaths this winter. In 2019, 17 boys died during the winter initiation season. Death stalks the initiation season, between 2000 and 2019 more than 1100 initiates died in the Eastern Cape. In this video below, 19 boys died during summer initiation season in Eastern Cape:  The deaths were due to botched circumcisions, dehydration, assault and even torture. Thousands have been injured, but this winter season is different due to the suspension of the custom. Professor Luka David Mosona says, “In the Eastern Cape it has claimed large numbers of young people, so our concern really is that these COVID-19 regulations have actually assisted in curbing and saving the lives of many young people who would have this time died and perished.” A number of interventions have been put in place over the years to reduce the death toll, but with limited success. This interruption is seen as a chance to make meaningful changes. “We are calling on all our traditional leaders wherever they are and the initiation practitioners and surgeons to make sure that when that time comes to open the initiation schools in our country, our young men go there and come back alive.” Amakhiosikazi Akomkhulu Forum Chairperson, Queen MadosinI Ndamase says, “It has been hitting bad, it has been very sad for us as parents to find ourselves having to bury our own children. Healthy children who went to the initiation schools healthy, so the lockdown regulations have come positive in that way and have further protected these young boys who are back at school now.” Traditional leaders have noted the current situation. Contralesa’s Mkhanyiseli Dudumayo says, “It’s just a blessing to us, that in this June there are no mortuaries that have kept the corpse of initiates, so we can say indeed it worked in our favour, I mean this suspension of the initiation schools in this season due to COVID-19 pandemic.” Boys who still want to undergo the rite of passage to manhood also want to see stringent measures in place to ensure their safety.