Over 50 schools in the North West province have been vandalised since the country went into the nationwide lockdown. Some schools have reportedly not yet received personal protective equipment. A 56-year-old principal tested positive of COVID-19 at one of the province’s schools, but the provincial government says it is ready for schools’ reopening on Monday. As schools reopen on Monday, some learners say they are partially ready. They say limited safety precautions are a concern in the North West. One such learner is Matshidiso Mokopanele, who is doing matric this year. “I am not ready to go to school on Monday because they gave us only one mask and we’re many at school. We won’t apply social distancing and we don’t have sanitizers as well. Our classrooms have not been cleaned.” Concerned parents say they can’t do anything, as their children are behind with school work. “I don’t think it’s safe for children to go back to school now because I’ve seen how coronavirus numbers are increasing every day. I think their lives are at risk but they’re behind with school work we just have to let them go back” says parent Nthabiseng Mokopanele. Grade 7 learner, Mamello Machuisa, is aware of all she has to do to prevent herself from being infected by COVID-19. “At school, I must wash my hands. I must not hug other children. I must not kiss other children and at school, I must wear a mask.” However her guardian, Tsholofelo Machuisa is worried as Mamello has an underlying medical condition. “I am worried about Mamello because of winter season. She has a lung problem. I am not ready to let Mamello go to school.” Authorities say all is set for school reopening, as North West Education MEC Wendy Matsemela explains. “To date, we have used R380 million for PPEs, sanitizers, your hand wash soaps, disinfectants that were bought for the schools for use. Our face shields, including air face masks.” Learners that the SABC spoke to, say they hope that COVID-19 will not stand in the way of their education. INFOGRAPHICS: Safety protocols that schools’ have to adhere to:    Reporter: Tebogo Phakedi