Members of another family in the Northern Cape have allegedly been assaulted by law enforcement officials. Last week, Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) confirmed that it is investigating a case against policemen who assaulted a Warrant Officer from Richie. Now the Bosvarke family in Galeshewe says eight security vehicles, including two trucks from the South African National Defence Force (SANDF), arrived at their home and two family members were assaulted, without any explanation. Kgositsile Bosvarke says he was busy with his domestic chores outside his yard, when a group of police and soldiers cordoned off the entire street. Without any explanation, they allegedly handcuffed him, beat him up and then proceeded into the house. A family member who was filming the incident was also reportedly assaulted and arrested. Bosvarke says he does not have any problems with police doing their work, but that must be done within the law. “By the time my wife opened the gate, they budged into the house, it was only when they were in the house that they told me that they got information that we are smuggling, and they’re here to search without any search warrant.” The police investigative body, IPID, says the Bosvarke family has opened a case with them against the implicated officials. Spokesperson Ndilela Cola adds: “IPID can confirm that we are aware of an assault, it has been reported to our office in the Northern Cape. The investigation, in this case, is under way.” IPID has also raised concerns about the high number of cases that are being reported. The police investigative body is appealing to all law enforcement officials, to conduct themselves according to the law. Meanwhile, 54-year-old Warrant Officer Johannes Khomojong is still recuperating at home, after allegedly being assaulted by police last month. In May, IPID told Parliament that during the period of March 26 to May 5, it received 828 complaints against police, of which 376 were related to the national lockdown. About 280 are assault, 79 discharge of official firearms and seven are cases of corruption. Below is an infographic on how to report security officials:  