President Cyril Ramaphosa says the main task of the post-COVID-19 landscape is to create employment, adding that current jobs should also be protected.  Ramaphosa was addressing a hybrid sitting of the National Assembly in his first virtual oral reply session on Thursday. The President has reiterated that the post-COVID-19 economic landscape is equivalent to what he calls a post-war economic state.  “So we have to do the extraordinary. And we will do this by embarking on a number of initiatives that will be aimed at creating jobs. And some of those will be expanding public employment, increasing investment in public infrastructure and services and enabling greater job creation.” Zero-based budget Ramaphosa says the government was preparing a zero-based budget as an emergency measure in the face of the COVID-19 pandemic. Zero-based budgeting is a method of budgeting in which income minus expenses equals zero. Every function is analysed for its needs and costs. “Our budgeting processes also need to be looked at, our minister of finance is going to be coming to the house to present an emergency budget and its a reset of the budget that was presented and going forward we are already looking at starting from point zero, a zero-based budgeting process is now going to be heralded. It is going to be the new order of the day.” President Cyril Ramaphosa answers questions from Members of Parliament:   ‘Lockdown necessary to avoid explosive growth of infections’ Responding to oral questions, the President insists that the national lockdown was necessary to avoid an explosive growth of COVID-19 infections. He says when the decision to implement a lockdown was made, there were already 274 COVID-19 cases in the country. At that point, scientists estimated that South Africa already had over 1000 cases, he explains, saying many of them were not identified at that stage due to limited screening and stringent testing criteria. “By the time I announced the lockdown on Monday the 23rd of March, the number of confirmed cases has risen to 402 and by the time the lockdown took effect on Friday the 27th of March, there were already 1 170 cases. In other words, we had seen an explosion. “A prolonged delay in implementing stringent measures would have meant that South Africa would have missed a window of opportunity to achieve a significant flattening of the curve. This could have led to a runaway epidemic with potentially catastrophic consequences to our health care services,” the President says.