In the Western Cape up to 80% of people who have tested positive for COVID-19 have declined making use of government facilities to quarantine or isolate. This was revealed during a briefing by members of the Western Cape government to Parliament’s portfolio committee of Cooperative Governance and Cooperation on how it is managing the pandemic. The province is the epicentre of the pandemic with more than 53 000 confirmed infections and just more than 1 500 people deaths reported. The Western Cape houses more than half of the COVID-19 positive cases in the country and there seems to be no relief in sight, despite extensive interventions, to add to this government’s quarantine and isolation sites are being rejected on a large scale. The minister of Cooperative Governance Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma expressed concerns about this… Dlamini-Zuma says, “Health MEC, Dr NomaFrench Mbombo says they are trying various ways to influence those who reject quarantine or isolation.” Head of the Provincial Transport Department Jacqui Gooch says, “All the way from whether you can smoke, move around freely, to very real concerns around who will look after my home, their things, who will look after children if they are the breadwinner in the area.” The provincial Head of Health Keith Cloete, says they have managed to eliminate the testing backlog in the province, that at some point stood at 11 000. Cloete says, “There is currently no backlog, as of last week. All samples are being processed by NHLS in this province, samples received in last 48 hours.” Meanwhile, Premier Alan Winde says the province has seen a slight reduction in cases over the past two weeks. Winde says, “In the last probably two weeks we have not been doubling every eight days which was expected, we have been able to manage that down, other provinces with higher rates of infection than the WC.” Winde also appealed to businesses to always act with the best interests of their clients and staff at heart and abide by the COVID-19 restrictions and regulations to ensure maximum safety, as restaurants, hair salons ready to resume trading. Winde said customers must also act responsibly by wearing a mask and to stay at home if they feel unwell. The Western Cape continues to account for the highest number of infections at 53 512 confirmed cases and 1 536 people have died from COVID-19 in the province. The province also said clinical protocols are already being developed for the use of the drug, dexamethasone, in its battle against the disease.  Free State  North West  Gauteng  Mpumalanga  Northern Cape Eastern Cape  Limpopo  KwaZulu-Natal Western Cape COVID-19 STATISTICS IN SOUTH AFRICA sabcnews.com |  SABC News Channel | SABC Radio news SOURCE: Department of Health  & ﻿National Institute of Communicable Diseases  CASES FREE STATE LIMPOPO NORTH WEST MPUMALANGA NORTHERN CAPE 662 814 270 UNALLOCATED 0 AS AT 23 June 2020 DEATHS CONFIRMED CASES | 106 108 DEATHS | 2 102 TESTS CONDUCTED | 1 382 772 RECOVERIES | 55 045 GAUTENG WESTERN CAPE KWAZULU-NATAL EASTERN CAPE 5 5 1 9 91 18 108 5 625 2 454 622 2 1 536 331 122 53 512 24 041 (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); Meanwhile in the Eastern Cape, the first phase of the 3000 bed field hospital set up by Volkswagen South Africa for COVID-19 patients is complete. The facility was handed over to the Health Department on Tuesday. The facility can be used to treat patients with high acuity and who require oxygenation. It has been set up by VWSA in conjunction with a R107 million donation from the German government. The facility opens as the Metro and the province are facing a huge demand for beds. 