The body of another woman has been found just off the Golden Highway in Orange Farm, south of Johannesburg. She was found with multiple stab wounds and her body was dumped in a stream. The discovery was made by a passer-by on Thursday afternoon. Earlier this week, the body of another woman was found in the same area stuffed in a bag. Arrests are yet to be made. Meanwhile, police in Mpumalanga are still searching for a suspect, who allegedly set fire to his girlfriend in December. The 20-year-old woman is still being treated for her injuries. Confined to her hospital bed, Karabo Mnisi says her former partner still threatens her. GRAPHIC  VIDEO| Suspect who allegedly set girlfriend alight still at large:  Fighting GBV in the midst of COVID-19 Meanwhile, on Thursday, analyst and activist Khaya Sithole said that there is a need for people with the power to exercise their power immediately against GBV. This comes as GBV and femicide continue to be at the forefront during COVID-19 and the national lockdown. Earlier this week, a 31-year-old man was arrested in connection with the murder of Tshegofatso Pule. Pule’s body was found hanging from a tree in Roodepoort, Gauteng, more than a week ago. The 28-year-old, who was eight months pregnant, had been stabbed in the chest. “Actually, there is one variable of this particular conversation that you are in full control of, tell us exactly what it is that you have done in order to address this (GBV). How are we in 2020 still hearing people still saying, ‘well, actually I want to report an incident and this is what the policeman or policewoman said? I wasn’t taken seriously. It was not a secure environment. I was in the middle of a room with 20 other people and it was a very vulnerable and emotional time for me,” Sithole said. Ramaphosa shines a spotlight on Gender-Based Violence In his address to the nation on Wednesday, President Cyril Ramaphosa identified two pandemics facing South Africa. One is the COVID-19 virus and the other is Gender-Based Violence. He said in the last few weeks alone, 21 women and children have been killed in the country. One avenue available to victims of violence is a protection order under the Domestic Violence Act. But while experts say it is an important tool, it is not always effective.