Thousands of people took to the streets in European and Asian cities on Saturday, demonstrating in support of United States protests against police brutality. The rolling, global protests reflect rising anger over police treatment of ethnic minorities, sparked by the May 25 killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis after a white officer detaining him knelt on his neck for nearly nine minutes with fellow officers beside him. In this video below shows nationwide protests in the United States over the death of George Floyd:  After a largely peaceful protest in London, a few demonstrators near British Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s residence threw bottles at police, and mounted officers charged push protesters back. Earlier, more than a thousand protesters had marched past the US Embassy, blocking traffic and holding placards. Many thousands had also crowded into the square outside parliament, holding placards reading “Black Lives Matter”, ignoring government advice to avoid large gatherings due to the risk from the coronavirus. “I have come down in support of black people who have been ill-treated for many, many, many, many years. It is time for a change,” said 39-year-old primary school teacher Aisha Pemberton. Police in the German city of Hamburg used pepper spray on protesters and said they were ready to deploy water cannons. One officer was injured, they added. Several hundred “hooded and aggressive people” had put officers under pressure in the city centre, police said, tweeting: “Attacks on police officers are unacceptable!” In Paris the authorities banned demonstrations planned outside the U.S. Embassy and on the lawns near the Eiffel Tower. However, several hundred protesters, some holding “Black Lives Matters” signs, gathered on Place de la Concorde, close to the Embassy. Police had installed a long barrier across the square to prevent access to the embassy, which is also close to the Elysee presidential palace. In Berlin, demonstrators filled the central Alexanderplatz square, while there was also a protest in Warsaw.