EFF leader Julius Malema has called on all Black people across the world to unite and intensify the fight against racism. He was speaking in Pretoria at the US Embassy offices, showing support for African Americans who have been protesting against the killing of George Floyd by a White police officer. Malema took time and kneeled down for eight minutes, alongside EFF members in paying respect to Floyd. He says it will take fellow Black people to show support for one another for racism to be a thing of the past. “You can’t say South Africa first, we must say Black first and defend these Black lives here and defend the Black lives everywhere, including here in South Africa. Let us treat Black lives with respect and dignity. We will never be respected if we suffer from self-hate.”  He also took a swipe at President Cyril Ramaphosa, accusing him of having sold South Africa even before he became President.  EFF members also gathered in Cape Town, in front of the US Consulate in Westlake and outside the US Consulate General in Sandton, Johannesburg. In Limpopo, they marched to the Polokwane Police Station.   Khosa’s wife healing The widow of Collins Khosa, Nomsa Montsha, was part of the protest in Pretoria. Montsha says she is grateful to be part of the protest as it is helping her to heal from the loss her husband, allegedly, at the hands of South African Defence Force (SANDF) members. “Black Lives Matter, I was there with my husband when SANDF took his life. I watched everything, I was there. I’m happy to be here. And thank you EFF for the support you have given me. Thank you.” The EFF had urged participants to respect Level 3 lockdown regulations that allow jogging in a proper social distancing form. The party called on all South Africans to take to main roads and police stations across the country and take a knee for 8 minutes and 46 seconds, which is the amount of time the US policeman placed his knee on Floyd’s throat leading to his death. In the video below, Malema addresses protest against police brutality:  Since Floyd’s death in May, thousands have been protesting around the world calling for an end to racism and police brutality.