Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga is expected to give reasons why schools could not be reopened on Monday, as it was announced. Motshekga will brief the media this morning in Sunrise Park near Rustenburg, North West. In the video below, the basic education announces that its media briefing has been postponed  Grades 7 and 12 learners were set to reopen today, but the department says they will now open on the 8th of this month. But teachers unions, that include National Professional Teachers’ Organisation of South Africa (Naptosa) and the South African Democratic Teachers Union (Sadtu), amongst others, opposed this decision. They say schools in most provinces are not ready, because of shortage of basic needs such as water and sanitation in others, insufficient infrastructure, such as additional classrooms, as well as PPE’s for both teachers and learners, in others schools. Western Cape education MEC confirms schools will reopen today Meanwhile, Western Cape MEC of Education, Debbie Schafer has confirmed that schools in the province will reopen on Monday to receive learners. This is despite Sunday night’s announcement by the Department of Basic Education that schools will only open next Monday for Grade 7 and 12 learners. Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga postponed a media briefing on the issue at the last minute on Sunday night.   Her department then issued a statement about the new date, the 8th of June. Schafer says her department can no longer allow schools to operate in a state of uncertainty. She says the reopening of schools in the Western Cape today is in accordance with the Gazette promulgated last week by Motshekga, which stated that schools would reopen on 1 June. In the video below, Western Cape Premier Alan Winde says schools are ready to reopen  “We have been engaged in discussions at a national level over the weekend and were awaiting the Minister’s announcement. Given that this has now been postponed, we can no longer allow our schools to hover in a state of uncertainty.” “Western Cape schools have made a huge effort to get ready and this has been confirmed by an independent agency. Western Cape schools shall accordingly be open for learners. The week will be used primarily for the orientation of learners into the COVID-19 learning environment,”explains Schafer.   Free State  North West  Gauteng  Mpumalanga  Northern Cape Eastern Cape  Limpopo  KwaZulu-Natal Western Cape COVID-19 STATISTICS IN SOUTH AFRICA sabcnews.com |  SABC News channel | SABC Radio news SOURCE: Department of Health  & ﻿National Institute of Communicable Diseases  CASES GAUTENG WESTERN CAPE KWAZULU-NATAL EASTERN CAPE FREE STATE LIMPOPO NORTH WEST MPUMALANGA NORTHERN CAPE 4003 2545 3927 278 177 175 121 69 UNALLOCATED 6 AS AT 31 May 2020 82 3 0 1 DEATHS 8 503 33 52 1 CONFIRMED CASES | 32 ﻿683 DEATHS | 683 TESTS CONDUCTED | 725 125 RECOVERIES | 16 809 CLOSED CASES | 17 492 21382 (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));