The Motsomi family at Thaga-di-epalayang, near Hartswater, in Northern Cape, is mourning the death of its 26-year-old daughter, who was brutally killed by her former boyfriend on Sunday morning. It is alleged that the perpetrator broke into the deceased’s shack and killed her. The father of the deceased, Paul Le Roux, says when he was called to the scene on Sunday morning, the incident had just happened and his daughter’s body was in a pool of blood with multiple stab wounds. Le Roux says his daughter had obtained a protection order against the alleged perpetrator who has been arrested. “It hurts me too much…We’ve just been saying that guy who did this thing mustn’t go out of jail; that’s what we’ve decided as a family of the child. He must not even get a bail; he must just stay in jail because when he gets out we are going to make another plan…Rona re tlo mmolaya (We will kill him).” The vulnerability of women as GBV and femicide cases rise with Mienke Steytler, the Media Officer at Amnesty International South Africa:  ‘Bodies found inside vehicle’ In Polokwane, a 30-year-old man has allegedly shot and killed his 27-year-old girlfriend before turning the gun on himself in Bungeni village, outside Louis Trichardt, in Limpopo. The bodies of Wisani Mathonsi and Ntwanano Shisana were found inside Mathonsi’s vehicle which had been parked on the side of the road. Police say a pistol was also found in the vehicle following the incident which happened on Saturday night. Limpopo Community Safety spokesperson Matume Taueatsoala says that MEC Mavhungu Lerule-Ramakhanya has described the incident as unfortunate. “It is alleged that a 30-year-old man shot a 27-year-old lady and later turned the gun on himself, an act which the MEC of Transport and Community Safety in Limpopo condemns. MEC Ramakhanya is encouraging couples not to resort to violent acts when faced with challenges at home but rather to seek professional help.” Ramaphosa condemns gender-based violence President Cyril Ramaphosa on Saturday called on all South Africans to end the culture of silence against gender-based violence and report perpetrators to the South African Police Service (SAPS). Since the country entered Lockdown Level 3, there has been a surge in gender-based violence and femicide. In the video below, gender-based violence is on the rise in SA on the rise under lockdown Level 3.  “It is a dark and shameful week for us as a nation. Criminals have descended to even greater depths of cruelty and callousness. It simply cannot continue…We note with disgust that at a time when the country is facing the gravest of threats from the pandemic, violent men are taking advantage of the eased restrictions on movement to attack women and children,” President Ramaphosa said. – Additional reporting by Pimani Baloyi.