South Africa is moving to Level 3 national lockdown on Monday, 1 June. This follows President Cyril Ramaphosa’s announcement that South Africa will be moving to alert Level 3 to curb the spread of the COVID-19. The level allows for the reopening of schools and many industries. Back to school Grades 7 and 12 learners will now only return to school next Monday the 8th of June after the Department of Basic Education conceded that all schools were not ready to open on June 1. The department says only school management teams, teachers and non-teaching staff will return on Monday to prepare for the arrival of learners. A media briefing by the Minister of Basic Education, Angie Motshekga on schools’ readiness to resume classes that was scheduled for Sunday night has been postponed to Monday morning at 11am. Uncertainty over the reopening of schools:  Back to work Labour Minister Thulas Nxesi says workers have the right to refuse to go to work if they feel employers have not taken the necessary precautions to prevent the transmission of the coronavirus in the workplace. The Minister says all workers must wear masks in the workplace and employers should provide at least two reusable face masks, free of charge. Employers that will be reopening their businesses under Level 3 are also required to appoint a COVID-19 compliance officer, undertake risk assessment of the workplace and develop a plan for the return to work. Nxesi called on employers, both public and private, to mitigate the worst effects of the pandemic. In the video below, the economic cluster briefs the media on Level 3 COVID-19 lockdown regulations:  Transport regulations and guidelines Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula says domestic flights will be allowed to operate under strict health standards. He says the government is committed to preserving human life above all else, as enshrined in the Constitution. The Minister has clarified that as from Monday, domestic airline travel will be limited to business travel. “Monday is the first (June 1). It means aviation domestic flights are opened but limited. I have explained to you which are the lines that are going to be opened in that travel of the domestic limited service. It does not mean it’s ‘wonke wonke’ (everyone). Everybody is free to fly up and down. It’s business. You can fly to Cape Town but where will you sleep?” Mbalula says the department has taken advisories by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the Health Department not to use sanitising booths for health reasons. Mbalula says after evaluations, the Transport Department has concluded that Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) is not ready to resume rail services. He says the will continue to monitor the rail service’s state of readiness. Long distance trains remain prohibited. Prasa is expected to resume services from 1 July. In the video below, Fikile Mbalula briefs the media on Level 3 transport regulations and guidelines:   Non-contact Sport Resumes Sport, Arts and Culture Minister Nathi Mthethwa says all professional non-contact sport can resume, however, without spectators under Level 3. Mthethwa says all professional athletes who participate in contact and non-contact sport can start training from Monday. The Minister says within the next two weeks sport managers will have to write to the department detailing a plan of activities, also giving the assurance that athletes and technical staff will be tested for the coronavirus prior to the resumption of activity. “Non-contact sport and training for professional athletes may resume in compliance with the health protocol without any spectators. All sports bodies must within 14 days inform the minister in writing as to the date of resumption and further provide an operational guideline including a guarantee in the form of affidavits related to the testing of all officials before resumption for training and matches,” says Mthethwa. In the video below, Sport, Arts and Culture Minister Nathi Mthethwa addresses the media:  Below are the regulations for lockdown Level 3 