With religious gatherings permitted under level 3 of the national lockdown, many churches around KwaZulu-Natal have taken the decision not to reopen their doors. The Shembe Nazareth Baptist Church has confirmed to SABC News that members won’t be gathering just yet. “We took a decision that we cannot worship because we are a very big church, our numbers are extremely high. We decided that congregants should rather pray at home. If we can allow our people to worship chances are very high that we break the regulation of keep to 50 people. So for now we are worshiping from home,” explains Phenius Ncwane, who is the spokesperson of the Thembezinhle faction. The Archbishop of Durban, Cardinal Wilfred Napier, has also confirmed that the reopening of places of worship in their respective jurisdictions would be postponed. This is to allow for adequate preparations, including awareness workshops for Priests. In the video below, various SA religion leaders react the the reopening of churches:  Others have however decided to take advantage of government’s decision to allow worship to resume. They say they are ready enforce strict rules to protect their members from COVID-19. Chairman of the Durban Hindu Temple  Rajesh Soni says all devotees will be screened before entering the temple. “Currently at the moment Durban Hindu temple is closed but we will officially open the public on the 11th of June ensuring that all the necessary precautions and systems are in place. When the devotee arrives at the temple, normally sanitising will take place; thereafter they will be guided to the administration block where a temperature check will be done together with all relevant details so that in the event of tracing we will have then on hand,” explains Soni. Soni says while it is disappointing that some of the rituals and practices will not be performed – to protect devotees, a change is necessary. “All devotees bringing their food to the temple will unfortunately have to take it back. There will be no sharing of fruits together with any liquids. In terms of taking blessings from the priest one has to adhere to the 1.5 metre distances,” says Soni. General-Secretary of the Christian Catholic Apostolic Holy Spirit Church in Zion, in Pietermaritzburg, Reverend Nkosinathi Robert Lubanyana, says they will also not be taking chances with people’s lives. “For people to go back they must make sure the environmental is safe and the places of worship are safe there is proper sanitation of the actual church there environment is ready for the people to come in and also to make sure that as the congregants come in they and sanitized they have the mask, there are the scans and there is a register that needs to be kept there with the details of the whoever if coming into the church do that you can trace and track the people,” says Lubanyana. Places of worship have been urged to ensure that their numbers are limited to not more than 50 devotees. Meanwhile several religious organisations, across the faith spectrum, have chosen to continue with virtual services. Below is a graphic that highlights level 3 lockdown regulations: sabcnews.com |  SABC News channel | SABC Radio news LOCKDOWN REGULATIONS | THE LEGALITY "The exercise of public power must ... comply  with the Constitution, which  is the supreme law and the doctrine of legality, which is part of that law.” sabcnews.com |  SABC News channel | SABC Radio news LOCKDOWN REGULATIONS | THE LEGALITY That the national state of disaster be declared unconstitutional unlawful and invalid;  That all the regulations promulgated by the Minister be declared unconstitutional, unlawful and invalid;    That all gatherings be declared lawful alternatively be allowed subject to certain conditions;  That all businesses, services and shops be allowed to operate subject to reasonable precautionary measures of utilizing masks, gloves and hand sanitizers.  This relief was, however, only sought as an alternative and made subject to consultation with the Essential Services Committee contemplated in Section 70 of the Labour Relations Act, 66 of 1995. THE APPLICANT CLAIMS THE FOLLOWING sabcnews.com |  SABC News channel | SABC Radio news LOCKDOWN REGULATIONS | THE LEGALITY - Judge J Davis "It must immediately be apparent that some of the relief claimed has to a larger or lesser extent, either been overtaken or, at least been impacted on, by subsequent events.  These are the promulgation of the latest set of regulations signed by the Minister and promulgated during the course e of the hearing of this application, being the regulations published in government Notice 608 of 28 May 2020, the "Alert Level 3 Regulations" which added Chapter 4 to the existing regulations." sabcnews.com |  SABC News channel | SABC Radio news LOCKDOWN REGULATIONS | THE LEGALITY - Judge J Davis "We know that these measures are taking a heavy tall on societies  and economies, just as they did in China.  All countries musts strike a fine balance between protecting health, minimizing economic and social disruption and respecting human rights . . . . Let me summarise it in four key areas: " 1: Prepare and be ready 2: Detect, protect and treat 3: Reduce transmission 4: Innovate and learn sabcnews.com |  SABC News channel | SABC Radio news LOCKDOWN REGULATIONS | THE LEGALITY - Judge J Davis "The Minister, however, did not in her declaration seek to rely on section 27(1 )(a) of the DMA and the issue of insufficiency of existing legislation. She relied on the following factors for the declaration of a national state of disaster:  The magnitude and severity of the COVID 19 "outbreak" The declaration of the outbreak as a pandemic by the WHO The classification thereof as a national disaster by Dr Tau as referred to in paragraph 4.4 above The "need to augment the existing measures undertaken by organs of state to deal with the pandemic" and The recognition of the existence of special circumstances warranting such a declaration." sabcnews.com |  SABC News channel | SABC Radio news LOCKDOWN REGULATIONS | THE LEGALITY - Judge J Davis "It is unfortunate that the Minister chose not to enlighten the court what the above mentioned "special circumstances" are, but left it to the Director General to make generalized statements. Neither the Minister no the Director-General elaborated on the shortcomings in "existing measures undertaken by the organs of state".  A somewhat disturbing fact is that there was no time delay since the declaration by Dr Tau and that of the Minister during which such shortcomings could have manifested themselves as the Minister's declaration followed that of Dr Tau on the same day. In fact, they were published in the same Government Gazette, No 43096 of 15 March 2020." sabcnews.com |  SABC News channel | SABC Radio news LOCKDOWN REGULATIONS | THE LEGALITY - Judge J Davis "The applicants however did not attack the declaration on any of the abovementioned grounds or shortcomings but based their attack on the alleged irrational reaction to the corona virus itself and the number of deaths caused thereby." sabcnews.com |  SABC News channel | SABC Radio news LOCKDOWN REGULATIONS | THE LEGALITY - Judge J Davis "I find that, in an overwhelming number of instances the Minister have not demonstrated that the limitation of the Constitutional rights already mentioned, have been justified in the context of section 36 of the Constitution." sabcnews.com |  SABC News channel | SABC Radio news LOCKDOWN REGULATIONS | THE LEGALITY - Judge J Davis "The regulations promulgated by the Minister of Cooperation and Traditional Affairs ("the Minister") in terms of section 27(2) of the Disaster Managemenent Act 57 of 2002 are declared unconstitutional and invalid. ORDER | UNCONSTITUTIONAL, INVALID sabcnews.com |  SABC News channel | SABC Radio news LOCKDOWN REGULATIONS | THE LEGALITY - Judge J Davis " The declaration of invalidity is suspended until such time as the Minister, after consultation with the relevant cabinet minister/s, review, amend and re­-publish the regulations mentioned above (save for regulations 36, 38, 39 )(d) and (e) and 41 of the regulations promulgated in respect of Alert Level 3) with due consideration to the limitation each regulation has on the rights guaranteed in the Bill of Rights contained in the Constitution. " ORDER | DECLARATION OF ﻿INVALIDITY sabcnews.com |  SABC News channel | SABC Radio news LOCKDOWN REGULATIONS | THE LEGALITY - Judge J Davis "The Minister is Directed to comply with the process ordered in paragraph 2 above within 14 (Fourteen) business days from date of this order, or such longer time as this court may, on good grounds shown, allow and to report such compliance to this court." ORDER | COMPLY WITHIN ﻿14 DAYS sabcnews.com |  SABC News channel | SABC Radio news LOCKDOWN REGULATIONS | THE LEGALITY - Judge J Davis "During the period of suspension, the regulations published in Government Gazette No 43364 of 28 May 2020 as Chapter 4 of the regulations designated as: "Alert Level 3", shall apply. " ORDER | PERIOD OF SUSPENSION sabcnews.com |  SABC News channel | SABC Radio news LOCKDOWN REGULATIONS | THE LEGALITY - Judge J Davis "The regulations pertaining to the prohibition on the sale of tobacco and related products is excluded from this order and is postponed sine die, pending the finalization of case no 21688/2020 in this court. " ORDER | TOBACCO sabcnews.com |  SABC News channel | SABC Radio news LOCKDOWN REGULATIONS | THE LEGALITY - Judge J Davis "The Minister is ordered to pay the costs of the first and second applicants. The amicus curiae shall pay its own costs." ORDER | ﻿Costs (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));