Eight police officers, including a retired Lieutenant-General, have been arrested on multiple charges including fraud, corruption, theft and money laundering. The suspects were arrested Thursday morning during a pre-dawn raid at their respective places of residence. They are expected to appear in various courts soon. National Police Spokesperson Vishnu Naidoo says, “Eight members, a former Lieutenant General of the South African Police Service and six private citizens were arrested following serious allegations of corruption and related crimes which date back to 2017 with regards to tender fraud related to the marking of police vehicles.” “During these investigations, nine members of the SAPS, including senior officers, private company directors and employees are alleged to have been involved in an elaborate act to defraud the State. These suspects have been arrested in various areas including Pretoria and Durban,” added Naidoo. Three brigadiers, retired general among SAPS officers arrested for alleged fraud, corruption  Special Anti-Corruption Task Team National Police Commissioner Khehla Sitole established a Special Anti-Corruption Task Team following serious allegations of corruption and related crimes, dating back to 2017 against some members of the SAPS. Sitole praised the Task Team for the zest and determination they showed in the pursuance of this investigation. He says, “I have been kept abreast of this extensive and very complicated investigation since its inception. I am confident that the cases against the arrested suspects are water-tight.” “We cannot rule out the possibility of more arrests being effected in this matter adding that corruption within the SAPS will neither be condoned nor tolerated”, added Sitole. In a statement, the police said, the task team and its investigations have been supported by a prosecution team from the Investigative Directorate within the National Prosecuting Authority under the leadership of Advocate Hermione Cronje. The suspects are expected to appear in court/s yet to be determined either on Thursday or Friday. Chriselda Lewis reports: 