Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader Julius Malema used his Youth Day speech to reiterate his criticism of President Cyril Ramaphosa. He says the youth has been isolated not only by the COVID-19 pandemic, but the government too. Malema also called on South Africans to have the same resilience as the class of 1976 in fighting today’s ills – especially gender-based violence. He was addressing a virtual youth day rally as part of June 16 celebrations. Commemorating June 16 under the new norm EFF leader called on South Africans to come together against the plight of women and children. In this video, EFF leader Julius Malema calls on SA to defend women and children from abuse:  The recent spike in reports of attacks against women in recent days has sparked outrage. Julius Malema says: “Our communities must take leaf from the 1976 generation and organise themselves in a defence of the lives of woman and children.” Malema says COVID-19 has added to the plight of the youth and the poor. Once again, he accuses the President of neglecting his duty to the country. “As COVID takes its toll on the country the masses of our people in particular the youth are left to fend for themselves against the deadly virus and painful reality of poverty , retrenchment bloodshed despite guarantees that jobs will be protected.” Coronavirus has certainly changed the way things are done including commemoration of days like the June 16. The EFF leader says everyone should be mindful of what the pandemic has exposed. “COVID 19 has brought into sharp focus not only the broader radical economic inequalities but has also exposed how our education sector is based on the same apartheid separate development that is characterized schooling.” He continued to stress what he describes as the President’s culpability in the chaos unfolding as a result of the pandemic. “You will be held personally responsible for the loss of life that is going to happen as a result of his decision.” The Eastern Cape emergence scooters brought in to reinforce the fight against COVID-19 also made it to Malema’s speech. “The challenge of 1976 in the immediate was Afrikaans as the medium of instruction , now Eastern Cape EFF your immediate challenge is the scooters , deal with the same way the class of 76 dealt with apartheid regime.” The party says alcohol should be banned and has also called on the 2021 local government election to be postponed.