The eThekwini Municipality has reminded ratepayers that they have until the end of the month to apply for its “Special Relief Payment Plan for COVID-19”. Municipal spokesperson Mswawakhe Mayisela says the plan is aimed at arranging a payment plan with those who are in arrears during the lockdown. Mayisela says residents can enter into an interest-free credit agreement with the municipality on condition that 50 percent of the arrears are paid upfront. He says, “This is basically our special COVID-19 relief payment plan. For example, if you owe us R30 000, just pay 50% of that which is half and then you settle the remainder over a period of 24 months – which is an agreement which you would enter into with us.” “In the event that you default on the agreement, the city will then charge you interest. In the meantime, there will be no interest that is charged,” added Mayisela. PODCAST: eThekwini Municipality to provide interest-free relief for ratepayers that may have incurred arrears   Minister of Social Development, Lindiwe Zulu launched a special COVID-19 social relief distress grant which gives a R350 grant to the unemployed. Millions of South Africans applied for the grant, which will be paid for the next six months. Applicants can send a message to the SASSA WhatsApp number on 082 046 8553, send an SMS to *134*7737# or e-mail SRD@sassa.gov.za. Applicants must be over 18 and not be receiving any other government grants or the National Student Financial Aid Scheme allowance. Sassa CEO Busisiwe Memela-Khambula says, “When you put your application through, you need to indicate your name and surname according to how it appears in your ID so we can verify with Home Affairs. So there is no need to load a copy of your ID, bank statements, and proof of address – all that documentation is not required.” In the video below, Sassa CEO, Busisiwe Memela-Khambula unpacks the grant:  INFOGRAPHIC: SA’s COVID-19 stimulus package: Your Name Your Last Name email@email.com +1 304 104201 SA COVID-19 ECONOMIC STIMULUS sabcnews.com | SABC News channel | SABC Radio news President Cyril Ramaphosa has announced a R500 billion economic stimulus package to help South Africa cope with the COVID-19 pandemic. WHERE DID THE MONEY COME FROM? R500 BILLION HIGHLIGHTS WHAT WILL THE MONEY BE USED FOR? Unemployment Insurance Fund Institutions include:  World Bank  International Monetary Fund  BRICS New Development Bank  African Development Bank International Institutions Existing Budget Around R130 billion repatriated from current budget. Healthcare Relief of  social distress Support to companies Municipalities Protective gear for heath workers Community screening and testing Ventilators Increase child support grant by R500 for 6 months  COVID-19 social distress grant of R350 for 6 months Distribution of food parcels to 250 000 homes in within two weeks New model for food assistance through vouchers and cash transfers Emergency water Sanitation of public transport Food and shelter for the homeless. Loan guarantee scheme Tax ﻿relief Unemployment Insurance Fund R500 billion amounts to 10% of the Gross Domestic Product. Began in mid-March. Included tax relief, release of disaster relief funds, emergency procurement, wage support through Unemployment Insurance Fund and funding to small businesses. Aims to stabilise the economy, address ﻿extreme decline in supply and demand and protect jobs. Social relief and economic support package of R500 billion. Economic strategy to drive recovery  as the country emerges from COVID-19 pandemic. 3rd Phase 1st Phase 2nd Phase (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));