Deputy President David Mabuza says the country should not be held back by individuals who have taken the government to court to challenge lockdown regulations. Mabuza says authorities are more than determined to strengthen their response to COVID-19. Deputy President David Mabuza states his concerned about COVID-19 hotspots in Free State: There are 322 confirmed Coronavirus infections in the Free State – with nine fatalities. Deputy President Mabuza says Bloemfontein remains a concern in an effort to curb COVID-19 infections. “Make it a point that you are able to trace. I am happy when I am reading at your report, you have traced all your contact 99 percent. I think that is the point where Western Cape lost it. They couldn’t trace their contacts. And this time all of our eyes are still in Mangaung. Mangaung is still a concern to us you need to deepen your contacts tracing to us Mangaung its a hotspot.” A visit to assess the Free State‘s response to the pandemic. But the lockdown regulations have prompted several court challenges. The government has confirmed it will appeal the High Court judgment, which declared Levels 3 and 4 regulations unconstitutional and invalid. The Deputy President says they are aimed at curbing infections and saving lives. He’s conceded that COVID-19 has had a negative impact on the economy. Mabuza has also stressed the need to save the 2020 academic year. More than 90 000 Grade 7 and 12 learners in the Free State will be returning to school on Monday. However, concerns have been raised about chronic water shortages in some parts of the province. Free State Premier Sisi Ntombela says: “We deployed our people to the schools and we are confident to say that learners will be safe, it’s time they should come back to school.” Report by Aphumelele Mdlalane:  The Free State government has recruited more than one-thousand healthcare workers to combat the deadly coronavirus. In his report to the Deputy President, Free State Health HOD, Dr David Motau assured the national government that they have plans in place to curb the rising infections of COVID-19 in the province. Dr Motau says more resources will be directed at COVID-19 hotspots in the province. “We are really making sure that we try and contain the scourge of the virus. Our worry is Bethulie cases that are beginning to rise. It’s a small town of about 7000 people and we have to make sure that we close down that place and we have the experience we have done that before when we have a challenge with churches and we are going to use the same strategy to deal with that.” Motau adds: “We will do whatever it takes to curb the spread. We know that the peak time is near and we are ready to fight this taking into consideration of our hotspots in the province.” More resources will be directed at COVID-19 hotspots in the province and more educational campaigns will be launched. Additional reporting by Thabiso Radebe