The Verulam Magistrate’s Court has heard that the tavern owner accused of kidnapping and murdering a Tongaat over stolen liquor, has close links with local police officers. This has emerged during the cross-examination of Mlungisi Thabethe, one of the six accused who are applying for bail. The disappearance of Grade 12 learner, Andile Mbuthu, at the end of April has angered people from Hambanathi outside the KwaZulu-Natal North Coast town. Frustration boiled over and led to the torching of Thabethe’s property. State Advocate Krishen Shah has put it to Mlungisi Thabethe that he called police officers to his tavern, Magagula Lounge, in Hambanathi while the accused was questioning Mbuthu over missing alcohol on the 28 April. According to evidence during Thabethe’s bail application, 24 cases of beer and spirits were stolen. Thabethe has admitted that he took Mbuthu from a local takeaway to his tavern to question him about the missing liquor. He earlier told the court that he slapped Mbuthu, who admitted to taking the liquor. In his earlier testimony, Thabethe said that he told Mbuthu to never come back to the tavern and that he knew nothing of the teenager’s disappearance. It is believed this was the same day that a video was taken of a bleeding Mbuthu lying on the floor after an alleged beating, which circulated on social media. The video and the local police’s alleged inaction after the teenager was reported missing, angered local residents. Responding to questions from the state, Thabethe testified that he did not want to open a case against Mbuthu because the teenager is his cousin. Shah, however, pointed out that Thabethe is on such good terms with local police officers that he knows them by their nicknames. In the video below, accused Mlungisi Thabethe appears in court:  The state has also said that Thabethe was not being completely truthful in his evidence, because he did not tell the court about all his businesses. Shah also said there was ongoing communication between Thabethe and local police officers while Mbuthu’s disappearance was being investigated. He allegedly met police officers away from the police station. Mbuthu’s family eventually went to see the provincial police commissioner about the lack of progress in the investigation. His body was recovered from a local river after the provincial head of detectives was put in charge of the investigation. The bail application continues.