President Cyril Ramaphosa says the rise in coronavirus infections and COVID-19 deaths should not cause panic among South Africans. In his weekly letter to the nation, the President says preparation is key in the handling of the coronavirus pandemic. He has called on each household to look at how it can protect elderly people and those with underlying medical conditions as well as a plan for the possibility that someone in the family may become infected. President Cyril Ramaphosa says citizens must remain vigilant and remember that they are not helpless in the face of the coronavirus disease. With more than half of all cases since the start of the outbreak being recorded in the last two weeks, Ramaphosa says social distancing in public places is still a major challenge. Latest COVID-19 statistics:   On the Western Cape, a proving that is hardest hit by the disease, Ramaphosa says an integrated strategy must be put in place. He says the strategy should incorporate all spheres of government to increase bed capacity, additional funding and health personnel. In the video below, Western Cape remains the epicentre of COVID-19:  The President’s remarks come as anxiety mounts in rural communities of the O.R Tambo Municipal District in the Eastern Cape. This as the region’s coronavirus cases continue to increase with over 900 COVID-19 positive cases and 19 deaths so far recorded. The Eastern Cape province now has more than 5 000 cases and 101 deaths. It has overtaken Gauteng as the province with the second highest COVID-19 infections. In the video below, the Eastern Cape welcomes Cuban doctors:  The surge in numbers is attributed to non-compliance with COVID-19 regulations. Eastern Cape Chamber of Business president, Vuyisile Ntlabathi, has expressed concern about how some people behave. “Nobody can control this now. I can see a lot of people and there is no social distance whatsoever. It’s even more scary because we know that COVID-19 is increasing in this region, but now what I see today is shocking that I am so scared that tomorrow when we get results, things will be escalating,” says Ntlabathi.  Traditional leaders urge government to revert to Level 5 Traditional leaders want government to consider reverting to Level 5 lockdown in this region. Contralesa Provincial Secretary Nkosi Mkhanyiseli Dudumayo says: “If we can just make a total shutdown, making sure that everything is in control. After that, we can come to the alert Level 3 or Level 4, if it’s possible by seeing the number coming down.” SASSA struggling The South African Social Security Agency (SASSA) has also expressed concern with social distancing, despite having introduced new strategies. “We have realised that the problem that’s at shops, we still have a challenge, hence, we are deploying more resources. Look the soldiers are here, police are here. I am also sending more people from the volunteers to assist as cadres to make sure that social distancing observed throughout the Eastern Cape” says SASSA’s Eastern Cape Head, Bandile Maqethuka. Insufficient PPEs for healthcare workers Healthcare workers are also worried over alleged insufficient Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs). “We have suspected patients with confirmed cases in one unit and are being treated by nurses that are staying home using public transport to go back to work.” “We are scared of being victimised by our employers at work, if it can be found that we are the one’s who leaked what is actually going on because they are actually covering up everything.” Government buildings accommodating hundreds of civil servants have been shut due to reported COVID-19 cases. These include the Botha Sigcau, PRD,  OR Tambo Municipal Offices, KSD Municipal offices and about seven police stations. Government is also under immense pressure to contain the spread of infections in deep rural areas. “Our role is to continue pleading with the communities, pleading with the people in our rural areas. We use traditional leaders, we use various structures within governance to urge people and to cascade the information, we are also having the radio slots to cascade the information in their home language,” says OR Tambo Regional spokesperson, Zimkhitha Macingwane. Concerns have also been raised about some people who are still attending funerals and illegally viewing bodies of those infected with COVID-19.  