A Kimberley tavern manager has been arrested after he was caught selling alcohol over the weekend. In terms of the Level 3 lockdown regulations, alcohol can only be sold from Monday to Thursday. The owner of the Club 2000 tavern was arrested during a police patrol. Northern Cape Police Spokesperson Mashay Gameldien says the man will face a charge of contravening the Disaster Management Act Regulations. “While patrolling, the area the members noticed the alcohol being sold at a local tavern in the area. Investigations led the members to the discovery of various liquor valued at a R100 000 and cash amounting to R21 669 believed to be the proceeds of the sale of liquor. The liquor as well as the cash was confiscated by the police. The 25-year-old manager of the tavern was arrested and charged with contravention of the regulation of the Disaster Management Act, which is selling liquor which is prohibited on Fridays, Saturdays, Sundays and holidays.” In the video below, Liquor Traders Association says people are illegally selling alcohol:  Spike in alcohol-related trauma cases Hospitals around the country say they have seen a spike in alcohol-related crimes since South Africa moved to Level 3 of the nationwide lockdown. This has sparked concerns that the lifting of the ban may reverse the gains made so far in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. In the video below, South Africa sees a spike in alcohol-related trauma cases:  Officials at the Chris Hani Baragwanath Hospital said on Saturday that trauma cases have been increasing since Monday. Health Minister, Dr Zweli Mkhize has expressed concern over this. President Cyril Ramaphosa also expressed concern over alcohol-related trauma cases and urged citizens to drink responsibly. “It was always going to be risky and difficult development to loosen and lift the ban on alcohol. Unfortunately, we as South Africans, our alcohol consumption is one of the highest in the world and during the time of Level 5 and 4 we saw alcohol consumption had gone down and drunk driving accidents had almost come to a stop. There were none. Hospital beds had become empty of patients with trauma and as opened, we suddenly saw a spike in the utilisation of hospital beds. It was always going to be a risk and we’re not contemplating closing for alcohol as yet. Obviously, we’re hoping and calling on all South Africans to behave in a manner that will take into account the rights of other people to health and to healthcare,” the President said. Law enforcement agencies on the other hand have reiterated that those caught violating lockdown regulations will be brought to book.