Teachers Union NAPTOSA says it welcomes with caution the announcement by Basic Education that most schools are ready to reopen on Monday for Grade 7 and Grade 12 learners. The union says it is concerned about the water and sanitation gaps that still exist at some schools, especially in the Eastern Cape and KwaZulu-Natal. NAPTOSA Executive Director Basil Manuel says the compliance of schools with COVID-19 regulations in the long term needs to be closely monitored. “We have an agreement that in those schools where teachers haven’t gone back, that orientation starts tomorrow and that by Wednesday teaching will kick-off because there are gaps. Our teachers stayed out because these gaps hadn’t been covered. Now the real monitoring starts because there are still issues. For us, the big issues are the sustaining of the COVID-19 compliance. It doesn’t matter that you are ready for a day; you must be ready for the next six months. Are there going to be replenishment of the supplies?” In the video below, NAPTOSA reacts to the reopening of schools:  On Sunday, Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga said learners from schools that are not ready to reopen will be accommodated in neighbouring schools, among other measures. “For the remaining 5% or so of learners, alternatives measures have been developed by districts and provinces. Some of them include using neighbouring schools, using unutilised spaces, for instance in boarding schools and putting other learners in camps just to make sure that no leaner gets left behind. Because some of these alternatives need consultations with parents in particular, provinces will be engaging with parents and following appropriate protocols to get parental concession that we move learners from where they are and find the spaces in alternative places.” Motshekga says the department has improved its mop-up preparations. In the video below, eMalahleni’s Mokibe Primary is relocated as it is not ready to reopen:  Parents react to the reopening of schools Parents of the learners at the Bainsvlei Combined School say they are happy that schools resume on Monday. The school welcomed 187 learners who will resume their studies on following three months of the lockdown. Parent Potlako Ketshekile says while e-learning was a solution; learners need the presence of teachers. “The academic year is not going to be affected. They are still expected to write their examinations. They are learning from home with this e-learning, but they need teachers in front. In townships they are mixing. Here at schools, they are going to be monitored.” In the video below, parents inspect schools ahead of reopening: sou