In a letter seen by SABC News, the group calls for a discussion that will focus on systemic racism, police brutality and violence against peaceful protests when the council resumes on June 15. Such a debate in the council would be the first the national situation of a Security Council permanent five members would discuss.  The letter states that the international outcry following the tragic events in Minneapolis, on Africa Day, stressed the urgency for the Council to discuss these issues, pointing to the fact that the brutality meted out to Floyd was not an isolated incident.  The urgent dialogue is sought to address the structural and proximate causes of racial discrimination that prevails worldwide with tremendous impact on the enjoyment of human rights, especially for People of African Descent. The Africa Group says it hopes the discussion will chart the way forward and propose strategies on how different human rights mechanisms and relevant treaty bodies can improve their work to bring about tangible results on the end of racial discrimination and in cooperation with concerned countries. In the video below, is a discussion on calls for police reform in the US with a Black Lives Matter activist:  Floyd’s death has been declared a homicide. The 46-year-old died after a policeman knelt on his neck, despite his plea, saying “I can’t breath.” His alleged killer, Derek Chauvin, has been charged with second-degree murder and is out on bail. The three officers, who were with him on that fateful day, are facing abetting murder charges. The four officers have been fired following public pressure, calling for justice in the matter. Chauvin is the most experienced of the four and doesn’t have a good track record. In his nearly 20 years of service within the Minneapolis Police Department, he has reportedly had 17 misconduct complaints laid against him. His fall from grace came after a video of him kneeling on Floyd’s neck went viral. It followed days of protests from Americans of all colour and creed, calling for justice. Other parts of the world, including the UK and South Africa, also followed with similar protests.