The family of Collins Khosa has called on South Africans to unite and demand justice for his death. The family says they wish the same sense of outrage was displayed at his death compared to that of United States citizen George Floyd. Khosa died, allegedly at the hands of soldiers in Alexandra during the early part of the lockdown in April. He is one of 11 civilians killed allegedly during the actions of police and defence force members. In an exclusive interview with the SABC, Khosa’s partner Nomsa Montsha, says justice must prevail. “It was very hard to bury Collins alone. There were so many people who wanted to come, but because of the rules, they couldn’t come. Government is not helping us. So, if there is someone who can help, we would like to see those people who killed Collins Khosa to be behind bars. We can’t do that alone. We will need South Africans to help us. We still believe that those soldiers will be behind bars no matter what they are doing. (Whether) they are investigating or not, we will get justice for Collins,” says Montsha. President Cyril Ramaphosa on Friday says government will ensure that those responsible for the death of Khosa will be brought to book and face the full might of the law. The Defence Ministry earlier released a statement insisting that investigations into Khosa’s death are far from closed and that the Military Ombud is expected to complete a report into the matter within a period of eight weeks. The High Court in Pretoria ruled that the soldiers be suspended and the army produces a report into the matter. However, the SANDF report apparently says Khosa’s death cannot be linked to the injuries he sustained. The Defence Ministry says investigations are continuing by the Military Ombud and police. Khosa’s partner Nomsa says they are very confused over the latest developments. “It seems like we can’t put our voice out there. We are asking ourselves what have we done. We also lost our loved one. People are talking about it out there, but South Africa where are you? We also lost someone that we wanted to be with. Is it because we are from a poor family who comes from Alexandra township?” asks Montsha. In this video, Collins Khosa’s family call to justice to be served: 