Western Cape Transport Minister Bonginkosi Madikizela says they are looking at the possibility of charging taxi operators who fail to adhere to COVID-19 safety regulations. Madikizela made these comments during an inspection at the Nyanga Taxi Rank, where his department launched a number for commuters to raise issues and concerns. Taxis departing from Nyanga Taxi Rank being inspected  Madikizela says they have received a number of complaints about taxis from Nyanga, with overloading being the main concern and says the department, in conjunction with the City of Cape Town, will clamp down on those who do not adhere to regulations. Madikizela says, “Taxi operators – that violate regulations pertaining to overloading, not having sanitiser or not wearing masks – could face attempted murder charges. Under the current protocols, only ten commuters and the driver are allowed in a taxi.”  The infographic below outlines the regulations:  Level 4 public transport regulations The body's immune system produces antibodies to defend against the virus/bacteria 2 Public Transport Public transport services to operate from 05h00 until 19h00 Loading capacity at 70% for minibus taxisLoading capacity at 50% for e-hailing and metered taxis Persons not wearing masks may not use public transport - includes minibus-taxis, buses, metered taxis, e-hailing services, charter and shuttle services. Road-based Transport Only essential cargo will be allowed to move across our land borders.  Cross-border road passenger movement remains prohibited. The body's immune system produces antibodies to defend against the virus/bacteria 2 Public Transport Gautrain Gautrain operations will be gradually re-introduced in all rail-based services, covering 8 of their 9 stations.  Trains will operate from: 05h00 to 12h00 15h00 to 20h00 Road-Based Transport The ban on passenger vessels and cruise liners remains in place.  Only vessels bringing in cargo allowed at ﻿ports 4 Aviation The ban on both domestic and international passenger flights remains in place.  Repatriation flights either bringing back South Africans stranded in foreign countries or transporting foreign nationals to their home countries are allowed.  Mining and agricultural sector to allow limited movement of aircrafts, either to transport essential workers by chartered aircrafts or to spray pesticides on crops Buses 70% loading capacity for buses 50% loading capacity for shuttle and chauffeur services The body's immune system produces antibodies to defend against the virus/bacteria 2 Rail Full resumption of freight rail.  Commuter rail will resume operations gradually on an incremental basis - limited services with strict measures. Metrorail No immediate resumption of Metrorail commuter services (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));