The Defence Ministry is insisting that investigations into the death of Alexandra resident, Collins Khosa, are far from closed and that the Military Ombud is expected to complete a report into the matter within a period of eight weeks. The ministry has issued a statement admitting that Minister Nosiviwe Maphisa Ngqakula was incorrect when she told the joint standing committee on defence that the South African National Defence Force (SANDF) probe into Khosa’s death might be re-opened after the military reportedly found that Khosa had not died from injuries he allegedly sustained during a beating at the hands of soldiers. The apparent exoneration of the soldiers by the SANDF has been questioned by a number of observers. Maphisa Ngqakula says in addition to the Ombud’s investigation into the matter, a criminal investigation is also being conducted by the police. Meanwhile, the family of Collins Khosa says they wish the same sense of outrage was displayed at his death compared to that of US citizen George Floyd. Khosa died, allegedly at the hands of soldiers in Alexandra during the early part of the lockdown. The High Court in Pretoria ruled that the soldiers be suspended and the army produces a report into the matter. However, the SANDF report apparently says Khosa’s death cannot be linked to the injuries he sustained. Since the lockdown began, 11 South Africans have reportedly died as a result of actions by police or defence force members. The Defence Ministry says investigations are continuing by the Military Ombud and police. In an exclusive interview with the SABC, Khosa’s partner Nomsa says they are very confused over the latest developments. “It seems like we can’t put our voice out there. We are asking ourselves what have we done. We also lost our loved one. People are talking about it out there but South Africa where are you? We also lost someone that we wanted to be with. Is it because we are from a poor family who comes from Alexandra township?”  The graph below provides details of how you can report brutality against security personnel:  (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); Demonstration outside US Embassy in Pretoria Civil rights movement ‘Not in My Name’ has added its voice to the call for justice for the police killing of American George Floyd. The movement also demands justice for Collins Khosa, allegedly killed by the SANDF in April 2020. ‘Not in My Name’ held a demonstration outside the United States Embassy in Hatfield, Pretoria.  Ministry of Defence’s media statement on Collins Khosa : 