The State Capture Commission of Inquiry is set to resume its work in the last week of June. Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo says there are just a few issues that need clarity such as interprovincial travel for witnesses. The Commission will also have to conduct its work differently and cross-examination will on be on specific points. “There is no reason why we should not be able to resume hearings, either in the last week of June or the first week of July. We are going to make preparations to do that,” says Zondo. Those who are accused of corruption, malfeasance and state capture will soon be finding themselves in the hot seat again. Witnesses to alleged corruption will also be back to help shed some light. But the Commission Chairperson says it will not be business as usual because of the COVID-19 pandemic.  Deputy Chief Justice says the commission is seeking some clarity on the movement of witnesses when the commission’s proceedings resume. “There needs to be some clarity with regards to the witnesses that we may want to bring to the commission to give evidence; and if they come from other provinces and not from Gauteng and not metropolitan areas that needs some attention and the issue of investigators when they travel to other provinces,” Deputy Chief Justice Zondo explains. The witnesses will not be getting warm-up questions, evidence leaders will focus on specifics. This is aimed at reducing the time witnesses will spend on the stand. “The witness can be asked questions only in relation to certain important issues and not on everything. The public will have access to the entire transcript on what has been deposited, so nothing will be hidden from the public.” President Cyril Ramaphosa was expected to appear before the Deputy Chief Justice in July but the COVID-19 outbreak has moved the President’s appearance to a later date. Below Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo briefs the media about the work of the commission:  Earlier this year, the commission had been investigating other matters of state capture involving the Passenger Rail Agency of  South Africa (Prasa)  and the aviation sector. This work is to be put on hold for now. “