Democratic Alliance (DA) interim leader, John Steenhuisen, has marked Youth Day by urging young people not to take for granted the gains of the country’s democracy. He says it is the courage of the learners who stood up against the brutal apartheid government 44 years ago and refused to be taught in Afrikaans across the country; that must continue to be acknowledged. In the video below, SA commemorates 44 years since the Soweto uprising:  Steenhuisen says the DA will always honour those heroes and heroines for it is their effort that saw the country becoming a democracy. “We celebrate today the youth of 1976 for their bravery on the frontlines for fighting for freedom in South Africa. Perhaps a time for a reminder that these fruits we are enjoying today must not be taken for granted and that to each generation falls a responsibility to be freedom fighters to ensure that these freedoms that have been so hard-fought and won, are sustained for generations to come.”  DA Youth Leader, Luyolo Mphithi, says young people need to become more active in uniting and building a better economy for all. He says many young people continue to face the brunt of unemployment due to the weak economy, which is even worse during the pandemic. Mphithi was addressing the DA’s virtual youth day celebration. He says the coronavirus pandemic is causing more difficulties for young entrepreneurs in the county and that something needs to be done by the youth for the youth. “The biggest challenge that young people are facing is unemployment – we are facing a crisis in which in the next coming years, young people are running the risk of not working their entire lives. So when we speak about the youth hustle continues, what it does is we speak about how South Africa and young people own the recovery of the economy of the country and ensure that we centre young people at the centre of economic inclusion.” The youth and the economy Earlier on Tuesday, President Cyril Ramaphosa called on the youth to use ideas and innovation to help change the country’s economy. The president spoke in a virtual panel meeting with a group of influential young people. “I am saying to the financiers, I want to raise another R500 billion, a trillion, to support young people and all our people to get jobs. For me, this is a great moment for the young people; they just make my heart melt because they are full of ideas. I say I want those ideas, give me those ideas so that we can change this country.” The youth expressed concerns over job insecurity and the declining economy as COVID-19 infections and the death tally rises. In the video below, President Ramaphosa’s Youth Day message:  Western Cape Premier, Alan Winde, says COVID-19 has presented the youth with an opportunity to develop innovative ideas, which could create jobs in the future. He was speaking online during a digital address to mark Youth Day. Winde says new innovations to deal with COVID-19 in the province could also boost the local economy after the pandemic. “That is the opportunity of the youth right now. The opportunity is your ability to take risks, your ability to think out of the box, your ability to use this new environment to the absolute maximum and be bold. Take chances while you can. Young people, that’s where the opportunities lie.” – Additional reporting by Corbin August.