Gauteng Health department has confirmed that 15 of its staff members at the George Mukhari hospital, north of Pretoria have tested positive for COVID-19. The revelations follows a tip-off from disgruntled employees who felt that the hospital management was not dealing with the outbreak accordingly. The staff accused management of not disinfecting affected areas. Gauteng’s Department of Health says the staff members who are mostly nurses are currently in isolation. The department’s head of Communications, Motalatale Modiba says necessary measures have been taken to attend to the outbreak at the hospital. “The process of contact tracing for all the contacts that have been listed by the affected staff members is underway to ensure that we are able to trace every person that has been listed as a contact in order for us to administer medical care programme. To test them as well and to ensure that all the necessary counselling and processes are undertaken.” Pretoria clinic closed after employees test positive for COVID-19 The City of Tshwane’s FF Ribeiro Clinic, situated at the Sammy Marks Square shopping complex in the Pretoria CBD has been temporarily closed after two staff members tested positive for the coronavirus. Last month the city’s Management Centre was also shut down after a police officer, stationed at the facility tested positive for the virus. The city’s spokesperson Selby Bokaba says these results are the outcome of a robust screening and testing programme that the City has embarked upon for its frontline staff. Bokaba says all contacts will be traced and managed accordingly as per the Department of Health guidelines. At the same time, counselling and support will also be provided to the affected staff members who have been sent to self – isolation. The clinic will re-open for business next week Monday. Other clinics Last month, Langa Clinic in Cape Town closed for the decontamination process after an employee tested positive for at the clinic. The City of Cape Town said the clinic was closed after a risk assessment was conducted by Occupational Health. In April, the City of Ekurhuleni, east of Johannesburg closed down the Duduza Clinic after a nurse tested positive for COVID-19. She was tracked down after it was found that five overseas visitors, who had been at a prayer gathering the nurse had attended  in Bloemfontein had coronavirus. Government says at least 67 of the 859 people who had attended the church service tested positive for the virus. In the video below, SABC’s Mahlako Komane reports on the closure of the Duduza clinic: INFOGRAPHIC: SA’s COVID-19 cases:  Free State  North West  Gauteng  Mpumalanga  Northern Cape Eastern Cape  Limpopo  KwaZulu-Natal Western Cape COVID-19 STATISTICS IN SOUTH AFRICA sabcnews.com |  SABC News Channel | SABC Radio news SOURCE: Department of Health  & ﻿National Institute of Communicable Diseases  CASES GAUTENG WESTERN CAPE KWAZULU-NATAL EASTERN CAPE FREE STATE LIMPOPO NORTH WEST MPUMALANGA NORTHERN CAPE 7953 3472 7868 406 267 757 228 132 UNALLOCATED 63 AS AT 11 June 2020 178 3 1 1 DEATHS 9 966 57 64 5 CONFIRMED CASES | 58 568 DEATHS | 1284 TESTS CONDUCTED | 1 028 399 RECOVERIES | 33 252 ACTIVE CASES | 24 032 37 422 (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));