Police have called on the community of Orange Farm to help them identify the murderer of  3-year-old Ansia Kheha. The toddler’s body was found with stab wounds in a rubbish bin in Orange Farm, south of Johannesburg last week. Kheha was laid to rest today. Community members turned up in their numbers to pay their last respects. They waited outside the hall as only 50 people were allowed inside due to COVID-19 regulations. No one has been arrested for the child’s murder. Addressing mourners at her funeral, Police Spokesperson Constable Shaan Motsapi asked the community to help them to solve this and other murders in the area. Motsapi says SAPS is currently investigating three murders that happened hours apart. He says Orange Farm is under siege. “As soon as we are at the scene we are also summoned to go to another scene. We are summoned to a scene where a 35-year-old woman was murdered, while we are trying to digest the two, we are also summoned to another one where a 10-year-old was murdered. Orange Farm is under siege.” Kheha’s family says it is not sure who to trust anymore. “We are hearing more and more deaths, young children are getting killed and they are killed by males. So we will always be scared now to run for help. To each and every man we see because we are not sure whether we will be running to one of the serial killers or the rapist or what,” says family spokesperson Thatohatso Olifant. The little girl was found murdered in the bush after disappearing from her home. Her mother said she left her in the house to step into her storeroom. it alleged that the child was left in the care of another woman. Kelleigh James of the Black Doek Foundation says this murder brings to focus the plight of women and children in South Africa. “Let us remember the names of gender-based violence victims until the day we realise this is South Africa for all women and children. We aim to effect change through society to learn to appreciate, honour and protect all lives but today let the focus be on Ansia.” While South Africans have acknowledged strides made by government in a bid to address the scourge, they believe more should be done. In the video below, is live proceedings of Ansia’s funeral service:  