More than 700 teachers and just under 90 learners have tested positive for COVID-19 in the Western Cape. This has been revealed by the Western Cape Basic Education MEC, Debbie Schäfer during a virtual National Council of Provinces (NCOP) sitting. Shäfer, Minister Angie Motshekga and the other eight provincial MECs for Education jointly answered questions in the NCOP about the re-opening of schools and their response to COVID-19 at the schools. Shäfer outlined the Western Cape’s situation, “The latest count we had just over 700 teachers that had tested positive, it’s an accumulative figure. Obviously, some of them would have recovered but we don’t keep those statistics. We have about 88 learners, these are those who are back at school who have tested positive, but also they were not all necessarily infected at school, most of them were in fact infected before school.” In the video below, at least 15 Western Cape schools have had to be closed since reopening: Over 180 learners test positive for COVID-19 in the Eastern Cape More than 180 learners at the Makaula Senior Secondary School in Mount Frere in the Eastern Cape have tested positive for coronavirus. Health officials and social workers have been deployed to the school to start counselling learners, who will be informed of their test results on Wednesday morning. Social workers believe that non-compliance with the COVID-19 regulations is at the root of the cluster infection at the school and its hostel. –Additional reporting by Nkululeko Nyembezi. INFOGRAPHIC: Back to school plan: Department of Basic Education’s proposed plans for learner safety amid COVID - 19 COVID-19 | SA's BACK TO SCHOOL PLAN Social Distancing No hugging No handshaking Direct contact must be avoided Only two learners per desk Cloth masks to be worn by learners and teachers at all times Extra classes should be arranged in small groups that maintain social distancing. No mass public events No sports matches  No choral practice  No festivals  No eisteddfods Classroom arrangements Limit movement of learners between classes  Sanitise hands on entering of classrooms  Sanitise classrooms prior to the start of school day  No clustering of desks in classrooms BACK TO SCHOOL Everyone must sanitise before entering vehicle Distance between learners  must be managed Masks must be worn throughout the school day Transport Screening and testing Screening of learners and educators to be done at the reopening of schools, starting with Grades 7 and 12. Temperature checks to be administered. Learners or staff members who present with raised temperatures to be considered for isolation and testing. @SABCNEWS sabcnews.com |  SABC News Channel | SABC Radio news Source: Department of Basic Education (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));