The KwaZulu-Natal MEC for Health Nomagugu Simelane-Zulu has urged people not to refuse to be hospitalised if they have tested positive for coronavirus. This follows a death of a woman from respiratory problems after refusing to be hospitalised. The province is the fourth in the country with a high number of cases. KwaZulu-Natal currently has 83 COVID-19 deaths. Simelane-Zulu says some of the fatalities are unnecessary because people insist on self-isolating at home where there is no health practitioner. She is urging South Africans to listen to their health practitioners’ advice. “The reason we think we need to make this call is that in the past couple of days we’ve had a few fatalities that were not necessary purely on the basis that people did not allow themselves to be hospitalised. The latest death was this morning of a lady who both herself and her husband were found to be positive a few days back and they insisted of self-isolation and she began respiratory problems yesterday and she woke up this morning and started having challenges and she passed on now that is a death that is unnecessary,” says Simelane-Zulu. Below is a provincial breakdown of COVID-19 cases in South Africa:   Free State  North West  Gauteng  Mpumalanga  Northern Cape Eastern Cape  Limpopo  KwaZulu-Natal Western Cape COVID-19 STATISTICS IN SOUTH AFRICA sabcnews.com |  SABC News channel | SABC Radio news SOURCE: Department of Health  & ﻿National Institute of Communicable Diseases  CASES GAUTENG WESTERN CAPE KWAZULU-NATAL EASTERN CAPE FREE STATE LIMPOPO NORTH WEST MPUMALANGA NORTHERN CAPE 4806 700 521 1957 544 232 UNALLOCATED 49 AS AT 20 ﻿June 2020 268 DEATHS 9 1 392 114 83 5 CONFIRMED CASES | 92 ﻿681 DEATHS | 1877 TESTS CONDUCTED | 1 293 608 RECOVERIES | 50 326 50 173 18 997 14721 1 4 1 (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); According to KwaZulu-Natal Premier, Sihle Zikalala, the province has recorded 1 043 new cases in the last seven days with 258 cases reported on Saturday. Addressing the media on the latest developments, Zikalala says there have been sporadic cases of COVID-19 infections reported daily from districts that earlier had no infections. There have been three new deaths in Ethekwini District, which is the epicentre of the pandemic in KwaZulu-Natal. Zikalala says although the provincial epidemic curve is still flatter compared to other provinces, there has been a spike of new cases. “eThekwini recorded 57 new cases and it was followed by Umgungundlovu and Ilembe district. Ethekwini and Ilembe district continue to contribute 75% of the total cases provincially and to specific both of them are contributing 3 581. However lately in the past 10 days Umgungundlovu district has reported more cases than Ilembe on a daily basis,” says Zikalala. On the reopening of economic sectors like the tourism and hospitality industries, Zikalala says these industries will be allowed to operate under strict regulations. “Just to illustrate this by way of example each customer must be served using a clean towel not having being used by the previous customer, the PPEs used must be changed after treating each customer, water for hand washing must be served sanitisation wearing of masks all of that must be compulsory so there is a need for constant cleaning of equipment encouraging pre-bookings and not allowing many people inside the premises,” says Zikalala. Below is President Cyril Ramaphosa’s address on the reopening of salons and cinemas:   Zikalala has reiterated that no parents will be forced to take their children to school. However, he says, the school year will continue for those who do attend. “We are in a time of uncertainty and therefore we will not bulldoze and undermine the fears of the people. What we are not going to do is allow this academic year to collapse. We will strive by all means to ensure that those kids who are ready to go to school are supported and they complete this academic year.” Zikalala says authorities are concerned about those who are taking advantage of the situation to commit corruption and they will be investigated. Below is the KZN media briefing: 