The KwaZulu Natal Department of Economic Development has reminded the public and liquor licence holders that it is illegal to sell alcohol during public holidays. In terms of the current COVID-19 lockdown regulations it is illegal to sell alcohol on Fridays, weekends and public holidays. KZN Economic Development Department spokesperson Ndabezinhle Sibiya says while compliance is improving, a number of outlets were closed over the past two weeks due to violations. Sibiya says, “Over the past two weeks the inspectors under the KwaZulu Natal Liquor Authority and law enforcement agencies have visited 1 447 liquor outlets across the province and can confirm that some liquor outlets have been closed down for the violation of COVID-19 regulations and there are people who have been arrested.” Last week the province which has 8 000 liquor license holders, said it shut down 10 liquor outlets for violating lockdown regulations. Sibiya said, “The sale of expired liquor is on the common areas of contravention that has been picked up by the inspectors. However, according to MEC Nomusa Dube-Ncube she is encouraged by the attitude of traders they have shown some level of co-operation with the inspectors and the law enforcement and agencies. A total of 747 licensed premises have been inspected here in KZN over the past week.” The department said it will keep a close watch on liquor license holders, to ensure they follow lockdown regulations with regards to the sale of liquor. In the video below, the liquor industry welcomes the lifting of the ban on the sale of alcohol:  Ramaphosa calls for responsible drinking On Friday, President Cyril Ramaphosa expressed concern about the surge in alcohol-related hospital admissions since the resumption of liquor sales. The President has called on South Africans to drink responsibly. “It was always going to be risky and difficult development to loosen and lift the ban on alcohol. Unfortunately, we as South Africans, our alcohol consumption is one of the highest in the world and during the time of Level 5 and 4, we saw alcohol consumption had gone down and drunk driving accidents had almost come to a stop; there were none.” “Hospital beds had become empty of patients with trauma and as we opened, we suddenly saw a spike in the utilisation of hospital beds. It was always going to be a risk and we’re not contemplating closing for alcohol as yet. Obviously, we’re hoping and calling on all South Africans to behave in a manner that will take into account the rights of other people to health and to healthcare,” said Ramaphosa.