South Africans who have to fly domestically for work or to get to school are reminded that they must have the necessary permit in order to do so or they will not be allowed on the flight. Commercial domestic passenger flights resumed on June 1, subject to certain conditions. Domestic passenger air travel is not permitted for recreational, leisure or tourism purposes. Head of Sales and Distribution at FlySafair, Kirby Gordon, says if you are travelling for work purposes you need a letter of employment from the business and a permit stating that you are travelling on work-related business. However, if you are travelling for the purposes of relocation, to attend school or go to a funeral, a permit must be obtained from the nearest court or police station where you will have to provide proof and fill out an affidavit. Gordon says, “Primarily it’s going to be business and obviously businesses that are permitted to operate under Level 3, but also things like attending funerals, returning home if you’ve been in isolation or you’ve been in quarantine, moving house, relocation of children or to send them to school or university amongst other reasons.” “When they arrive at the airport they will be greeted by a Port Health authority official. They’ll make sure that all the screenings are done, temperatures taken, that everyone’s wearing their masks but what they will require are a few documents in order to allow you entry. They’re also gonna need to complete a port health authority screening questionnaire and the third thing is your travel permit.” He says, “It’s highly recommended that you get your paperwork in line first before getting your ticket.” Last month, Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula announced that domestic flights would be allowed to operate under lockdown Level 3 under strict health standards. “Only passengers will be allowed inside the terminal buildings. Therefore, no accompanying members of the public will be allowed inside the terminal buildings. Temperature screening will be conducted at the terminal building entrances, before any passenger is allowed entry. No passengers will be allowed inside the terminal buildings without masks,” Mbalula said. Passengers are encouraged to use self-check-in to avoid queues at the airport. In this video, Airports Company SA CEO Mpumi Mpofu discusses the resumption of domestic flights  INFOGRAPHIC: SA COVID-19 Lockdown Level 3 