Former SACP National Chairperson Charles Ngqakula says young people must be given the opportunity to lead, in honour of the late ANC struggle veteran, Harry Gwala. He was delivering a virtual commemorative lecture for the late struggle hero. The Lion of the Midlands, as Gwala was affectionately known, died on this day in 1995 and would have turned 100 years old. Ngqakula says Gwala was an MK combatant and a former Robben Island inmate. He says if Gwala was still alive, he would have insisted on the implementation on all the clauses of the Freedom Charter. Ngqakula believes Gwala would have taken the country on a developmental path.  Gwala’s spirit remains The governing African National Congress (ANC) says Gwala’s revolutionary spirit remains with the party. “Comrade Gwala was one of those rare revolutionaries who refused to be bow to the intimidation and repression of the apartheid regime, nor mitigate in any matter whatsoever his commitment to the total and fundamental liberation of all black (especially African) South Africans. As a consequence he was not only once, but actually twice, imprisoned as a political prisoner on Robben Island,” says ANC Secretary-General Ace Magashule in a statement. The ANC says Gwala, a teacher by profession, had a big influence on his students. “He believed that teaching was not only the imbuing of so-called objective facts, but first and foremost was meant to make learners conscious of the conditions under which they live. He ardently believed that historical analyses and politically conscious decisions that inform deliberate action can liberate them from oppressive conditions – such as those that were imposed by the apartheid regime. With this understanding and revolutionary approach to education, comrade Gwala was a disciple of the great Brazilian educator and philosopher, Paulo Freire, whom together with the communist guiding lights in his life, Karl Marx and Vladimir Lenin, he was fond of quoting.” – Additional reporting by Thabang Nkgweng Below is the ANC’s tribute to Gwala: 