Steel Manufacturer, Macsteel, has failed in its bid to halt the week-long strike at its operations in Bellville in Cape Town. On Wednesday, the Labour Court dismissed the urgent application filed by Macsteel to interdict the strike. Workers downed tools last Thursday, over reduced workers’ salaries by 20% without proper consultation. The  National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa’s (NUMSA) spokesperson Phakamile Hlubi-Majola says management refused to guarantee payment of the full salaries of employees, even though they worked throughout the lockdown. “The company had been operating at a 50% capacity since the lockdown and it argued in court that the salary reductions were necessary given the severe impact that COVID-19 has had on its revenue. The company, therefore, took the decision to cut salaries for the months of May, June and July without workers agreeing to this. In handing down the judgment, the judge found that the unilateral decision to reduce salaries constituted a change in terms of conditions of employment,” says Hlubi-Majola. Last week, Macsteel Group CEO Mike Benfield said, “The process we have followed in implementing the 20% salary reduction has been transparent as we have consistently communicated each step of the process with our staff and entered into discussions around them.” Benfield also said they have in fact applied to the UIF  COVID-19 Temporary Employer / Employee Relief Scheme. “We have applied for the Covid-19 UIF TERS, our staff will be paid the UIF support amount. We expect that this will compensate the majority of staff fully for the 20% reduction.” INFOGRAPHIC: SA’s stimulus package: Your Name Your Last Name email@email.com +1 304 104201 SA COVID-19 ECONOMIC STIMULUS sabcnews.com | SABC News channel | SABC Radio news President Cyril Ramaphosa has announced a R500 billion economic stimulus package to help South Africa cope with the COVID-19 pandemic. WHERE DID THE MONEY COME FROM? R500 BILLION HIGHLIGHTS WHAT WILL THE MONEY BE USED FOR? Unemployment Insurance Fund Institutions include:  World Bank  International Monetary Fund  BRICS New Development Bank  African Development Bank International Institutions Existing Budget Around R130 billion repatriated from current budget. Healthcare Relief of  social distress Support to companies Municipalities Protective gear for heath workers Community screening and testing Ventilators Increase child support grant by R500 for 6 months  COVID-19 social distress grant of R350 for 6 months Distribution of food parcels to 250 000 homes in within two weeks New model for food assistance through vouchers and cash transfers Emergency water Sanitation of public transport Food and shelter for the homeless. Loan guarantee scheme Tax ﻿relief Unemployment Insurance Fund R500 billion amounts to 10% of the Gross Domestic Product. Began in mid-March. Included tax relief, release of disaster relief funds, emergency procurement, wage support through Unemployment Insurance Fund and funding to small businesses. Aims to stabilise the economy, address ﻿extreme decline in supply and demand and protect jobs. Social relief and economic support package of R500 billion. Economic strategy to drive recovery  as the country emerges from COVID-19 pandemic. 3rd Phase 1st Phase 2nd Phase (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));