Two weeks since the return of matrics to school the class of 2020 has mixed feelings about the final exams. Schools in Gauteng have been left to craft their own catch-up plans. Schools recorded different teaching experiences during the lockdown. For thousands of matriculants across the country, it is a race against time. The majority are making up for lost tuition time. At Sutherland High School in Tshwane, online learning has helped matriculants to be up to speed with the curriculum. “Our teachers have been keeping tabs on things online but also the curriculum has been trimmed down. But our biggest challenge will be getting learners who have not had access to online up to speed with everyone else,” says Peter Stone, who is the school principal. “During the lockdown I studied  nine hours a day, it was like work for me,” says one learner from Sutherland High. But it wasn’t all smooth sailing in some schools. Mahlenga is a village in Gauteng. Matric learners at the village’s only high school had to put in more hours to catch up with their city peers. “We are having Saturday classes where they are expected to come in. The teacher who stays locally have also requested that their students also come in on Sunday until eleven o clock,” explains Mahlenga Secondary School Principal, Zanele Jiyana. At Dan Kutumela Secondary school, classrooms have been converted into weekend learning centres. Citing internet connectivity challenges during the lockdown, most of the learners at the school are happy to be back behind their desks. Final matric exams are expected to be written in November. In  the video below, matrics react to the re-opening of schools:  Department of Basic Education’s proposed plans for learner safety amid COVID - 19 COVID-19 | SA's BACK TO SCHOOL PLAN Social Distancing No hugging No handshaking Direct contact must be avoided Only two learners per desk Cloth masks to be worn by learners and teachers at all times Extra classes should be arranged in small groups that maintain social distancing. No mass public events No sports matches  No choral practice  No festivals  No eisteddfods Classroom arrangements Limit movement of learners between classes  Sanitise hands on entering of classrooms  Sanitise classrooms prior to the start of school day  No clustering of desks in classrooms BACK TO SCHOOL Everyone must sanitise before entering vehicle Distance between learners  must be managed Masks must be worn throughout the school day Transport Screening and testing Screening of learners and educators to be done at the reopening of schools, starting with Grades 7 and 12. Temperature checks to be administered. Learners or staff members who present with raised temperatures to be considered for isolation and testing. @SABCNEWS sabcnews.com |  SABC News Channel | SABC Radio news Source: Department of Basic Education (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));