The Free State Department of Treasury says it stands by its statement sent to Daily Maverick on allegations that the sons of the ANC secretary-general, Ace Magashule received COVID-19 contracts worth more than R2.7 million. It is reported that the names of Motheko Projects and Marvel Deeds appear on the list of companies that secured contracts from the Free State Treasury and that Magushule`s sons are listed as directors of the two companies. According to the response sent to Daily Maverick, the Treasury says it will ensure that consequence management will be effected where proper procedures were not followed.  According to the Department, the MEC of Finance, Gadija Brown has requested an audit on COVID-19 procurement. Magashule’s sons could not be reached for comment. The DA in the Free State has called on President Cyril Ramaphosa to deal with what they call Magashule’s web of capture in the province. The party says it is not shocked by the latest revelations that Magashule son’s have clinched COVID-19 contracts. Free State DA Chief Whip, David van Vuuren, says the party will ask the MEC to provide the report on the procurement processes. “It is unacceptable that the former Premier uses his powers and influence to benefit out of these contracts. We are going to put pressure on the ANC to investigate this matter. Unfortunately, it is evident that Magashule is still in control in the Free State and that his tentacles are deeply entrenched in the finances in the Free State. We also going to ask President Cyril Ramaphosa to investigate this matter and it is now time that he stands up and show that he has backbone; to stand up against Ace Magashule.” ANC committed to fighting corruption Following the leave of absence of Presidential Spokesperson Khusela Diko and Gauteng Health MEC Dr Bandile Masuku amid a scandal over alleged irregularities relating to personal protective equipment (PPEs) tender worth R125 million, Gauteng ANC says it is committed to combatting corruption in government. The tender was awarded to Royal Bhaca, a company owned by Diko’s husband, King Madzikane II Diko. ANC removes those involved in alleged tender irregularities:  Gauteng Government Spokesperson Thabo Masebe says that the province is serious about stopping corruption. “The government that I work for is serious about stopping corruption and since 2014 we have put in place a number of measures to ensure that all our processes are transparent and that we are accountable. We have, over the years, made a lot of successes in reducing corruption and ensuring that all procurement processes eliminate fraud and corruption.” King Madzikane II Diko says the Gauteng ANC’s decision to suspend his wife and Masuku is both irrational and unfortunate: 