Minister of Health, Dr Zweli Mkhize says indications are that the country is over its coronavirus peak and that the number of new infections continues to decline. According to the latest figures, 2 728 new infections have been reported in the last 24 hours, bringing the total number to 609 773. Minister Dr. Zweli Mkhize updates on COVID-19 situation in SA:  Reopening of schools As many learners prepare to go back to school, fear and anxiety have engulfed the Nation. The World Health Organisation has advised countries to take precautions when reopening schools particularly in areas where there is a surge of Coronavirus infections. The WHO says governments must find ways to reopen school but proper planning and stricter conditions must be in places before returning to classes. SABC’s Sophie Mokoena reports, there is fear that this will have a negative impact on the future of many young people.  Mkhize says monitoring and surveillance for coronavirus cases will continue at schools when learners return to classes on Monday. He says his department is confident that schools are properly prepared to receive learners.  Deaths continue to decrease in Western Cape Meanwhile, the office of Western Cape Premier Alan Winde says COVID-19 related hospitalisations and deaths continue to show a decrease in the province. It says the total number of hospitalised patients in the province is now below 1 100. Winde’s office says ICU admissions are close to the 200 mark and 18 deaths have been recorded over a two-day period. The latest figures show that there are 5 203 active cases of COVID-19 in the Western Cape, with a total of 102 585 confirmed cases and 93 656 recoveries. Mkhize reiterated that no healthcare worker should be exposed to the virus in their working environment without adequate training, protection and support, including the availability of PPEs. Mkhize says that a zero-tolerance approach would be adopted in fighting corruption.  Issues with unions Earlier, the Department of Health met with unions to address issues that have caused tensions on matters relating to the safety of health care workers during the coronavirus pandemic. In a statement, Health Minister, Zweli Mkhize reiterated that no healthcare worker should be exposed to the virus in their working environment without adequate training, protection and support, including the availability of PPEs. He says the government and the unions agreed that a zero-tolerance approach should be adopted regarding the availability of PPE to all health care workers. The Minister has directed that the availability of PPEs be jointly monitored in all facilities on a daily basis.  