The EFF in Gauteng says they will closely follow the police investigation into an alleged racial assault to ensure that justice is served. This after a 64-year-old domestic worker was viciously attacked at the home of her employer. Khabonina Mkhonza has worked for the family for the past 22 years but believes her attack, allegedly by the son of her employer, was motivated by racism and political intolerance. Mkhonza says on Tuesday last week, the son started his usual rant about government, ANC leaders and the EFF, but this time he began to viciously assault her. “I just heard a sound on my left cheek, then he grabbed me and started beating me up – I’m not sure what he used, he then threw me on the ground and got on top of me. I tried to defend myself but his father was holding my hands, when I managed to get away and tried to call the police, the father grabbed my phone and smashed it on the floor and said he doesn’t want any police in his house.” ANC and EFF members who visited Mkhonza and her family to offer support and legal assistance, called for the suspects to face the full might of the law. Acting EFF Gauteng chairperson, Itani Mukwevho says, “As the EFF, we got a complaint and then we immediately intervened. We went to her family and then that’s where we started to work with her, we even took her to the doctor, we even assisted her to open the case with police and we are still going to follow up with the police. We will make sure that the perpetrator is brought to book.” The victim speaks out:  Meanwhile, the ANC in Gauteng says it has provided legal support to the elderly woman. ANC deputy chairperson in Ekurhuleni, Jongizizwe Dlabathi, says they will also ensure that Mkhonza gets the necessary medical treatment. “Out of our discussions, we agreed that mama must be provided with legal support and I can confirm that a lawyer will be designated. Secondly, mama will be supported medically, she has really suffered grievous bodily harm and she needs to go through some medical processes.” The suspects are expected to appear in court on Monday.