Two suspects are facing charges of grievous bodily harm after allegedly brutally assaulting a domestic worker in Ekurhuleni. 64-year-old Khabonina Mkhonza believes her attack, by the son of her employer, was motivated by racism and political intolerance. The African National Congress (ANC) and the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) members, who visited Mkhonza and her family to offer support and legal assistance, called for the suspects to face the full might of the law. Mkhonza has been working for the family for 22 years. She said that signs of intolerance have always been there from the 28-year-old suspect who seemed to be unhappy about EFF leader Julius Malema and ANC leaders. She says on the fateful Tuesday morning, the suspect went on his usual rant about the state of the country, only this time started attacking her. “I just heard a sound on my left cheek, then he grabbed me and started beating me up. I’m not sure what he used. He then threw me on the ground and got on top of me. I tried to defend myself, but his father was holding my hands. When I managed to get away and tried to call the police, the father grabbed my phone and smashed it on the floor and said he doesn’t want any police in his house.” SABC’s Nomalizo Mandela reports:  ANC’s Deputy Chairperson in Ekurhuleni, Jongizizwe Dlabathi, says they came to show solidarity and provide the necessary support to Mkhonza. “Out of our discussion, we agreed that umama must be provided with legal support and I can confirm that a lawyer will be designated to support umama. Secondly, it is that umama will be supported medically because you can see that she has suffered grievous bodily harm and she needs to go through some medical process.” The EFF’s acting Gauteng Chairperson, Itani Mukwevho, says in addition to the legal assistance they have provided, they will also be at the court appearance to support Mkhonza. “As the EFF, we got a complaint from herself. We immediately intervened. We went to her family and then started working with her. We even took her to the doctor. We assisted her with the opening of a case and the progress of the case. We also attended the court case in the Springs Magistrates Court and we are still going to follow up with the police to make sure that the perpetrator is brought to book.” The suspects will appear in court on Monday.