Some African National Congress (ANC) members in Ngaka Modiri Molema in the North West are calling for the dissolution of the Interim Provincial Committee (IPC). They accuse the committee of not sticking to its mandate of uniting the party and building structures. The IPC was established last year following the disbandment of the Supra Mahumapelo-led Provincial Executive Committee in 2018 and the provincial task team, which was led by Professor Job Mokgoro. The committees were established following the violent protests by residents in 2018. But the members are saying the IPC is rather causing more divisions within the party in the province. Some disgruntled ANC members chanting slogans in front of the ANC provincial offices are from the branches within the Ngaka Modiri Molema region, which comprises of the likes of Mahikeng, Lichtenurg and Zeerust. One of them, Oompie Gotlagomang, says they do not serve the interest of the ANC. “They do not serve the interest of the ANC. Their mandate for having being deployed was to build the ANC branches. They have not done that instead, their interest is on government.” The group says the assessment done by the IPC on municipalities does not give a true reflection of the situation but further deepens factionalism. “It was vividly factional in the sense that they gave a report on all local municipalities under Ngaka Modiri Molema District. They excluded the most corrupt municipality, which is Ngaka Modiri Molema District Municipality. We can no longer afford to have the IPC which is factional. In their modus operandi, it is clear that they do not want to take us to conference,” says one of the members. These are some disgruntled ANC members calling for the NEC intervention. Meanwhile, the IPC of the ANC has called on those who are not satisfied with the work of the committee to consult relevant structures of the organisation. “The IPC has established the interim structures of the ANC in the province, working with interim regional structures. The advent of COVID resulted in a situation where we could not establish branches of the ANC as gatherings are prohibited. We urge members of the ANC to explore the organisational platforms and protocols in expressing their views and concerns.” The group says they will make sure that their demands are met.