President Cyril Ramaphosa has declared a Special Official Funeral: Category-1, to honour the late Struggle stalwart John Nkadimeng. Nkadimeng passed away on Thursday at the age of 93 and will be buried next week Friday. In a statement, President Ramaphosa says the country has lost a remarkable, selfless and exemplary struggle veteran, who contributed immensely to South Africa’s democracy. Nkadimeng, who was the recipient of the Order of Luthuli in Gold,  served as South Africa’s Ambassador to the People’s Republic of Cuba in 1995. Communist and ANC struggle veteran Ntate John Nkadimeng with his wife after receiving the the ANC’s highest award Seaparankwe. It was delivered by President Ramaphosa. And other top six officials. He passed away earlier today at 93 after a long illness #sabcnews pic.twitter.com/plrdY4ddOs — Ntebo Mokobo (@MokoboNtebo) August 6, 2020  He also served in the ANC’s political and military council as well as the chairperson of its political committee. ANC spokesperson Pule Mabe says Nkadimeng worked tirelessly for the ideal of worker unity. “As the leader of SACTU, Nkadimeng worked tirelessly for the ideal of worker unity in a single national federation and was instrumental in the formation of Congress of South African Trade Unions (Cosatu) Ntate Nkadimeng was detained during the Defiance Campaign in 1952 and was one of the 156 Congress activists charged with treason in the 1956 Treason Trial. As a true servant of the people of South Africa, his contribution was aimed not at seeking personal glory, fame or material rewards. It was also not motivated by the pursuit of personal ambition, self-interest and undying lust for power and self-privilege. It was about serving the interest of the people as a whole” @MYANC mourns the passing on of a stalwart of our revolutionary movement, Isithwalandwe/Seaparankwe Ntate John Nkadimeng. We convey our heartfelt condolences to his family, friends and the entire democratic movement #RIPJohnNkadimeng pic.twitter.com/9AJ9PjLiXU — African National Congress (@MYANC) August 6, 2020  