ANC Secretary-General Ace Magashule says all COVID-19 related corruption must be investigated objectively. On Tuesday, the ANC released a post-NEC statement of the meeting held last weekend, saying it was embarrassed by allegations of corruption involving its members. Corruption within the party’s ranks has come under the spotlight after media reports implicated President Ramaphosa’s spokesperson Khusela Diko and Gauteng Health MEC Dr Bandile Masuku in an alleged corruption in a Personal Protective Equipment tender procurement in Gauteng. Magashule’s sons are also reported to have been awarded contracts in the Free State. Speaking in an exclusive interview with the SABC News, Magashule maintained that attention must not be diverted from what he called real corrupt individuals. “Don’t target certain people, don’t divert attention from the fact that million and billion and trillions in this COVID-19 are actually being taken. Whenever there’s a thing [an investigation] something comes in to divert the attention from the real people who are eating, people who are thieves and who are actually making sure that they divert the attention of South Africans,” explains Magashule. In the video below, Ace Magashule speaks about PPEs investigation and corruption:  Meanwhile on Thursday, cabinet called on all public institutions to uphold the highest standards of integrity and accountability. As part of strengthening these interventions, cabinet has approved the setting up of a team of five ministers to, amongst others, look into all COVID-19 related procurements made during the lockdown period and strengthen current procurement systems. Briefing the media in Pretoria on Cabinet’s recent meeting, Justice and Correctional Services Minister, Ronald Lamola,  has called on those institutions to fulfill their mandates effectively and efficiently. “The team comprises of the Minister of Justice and Correctional Services, Mr Ronald Lamola (Convenor); Minister of Finance, Mr Tito Mboweni, Minister of Public Service and Administration, Senzo Mchunu, Minister of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs, Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma and Minister in The Presidency,  Jackson Mthembu,” adds Lamola. In the video below, Minister Lamola briefs media on outcomes of Cabinet meeting: 