The family of Sibusiso Khumalo (67) want answers on why he spent the last few hours of his life in a cold, makeshift treatment area in the parking lot of the Northdale Hospital in Pietermaritzburg. It is believed that Khumalo was admitted to Northdale Hospital last Friday and died a day later. His daughter, Hlengiwe Khumalo, posted a video on her Facebook page showing the makeshift structure in which her father was being treated. The KwaZulu-Natal Health Department has instituted an urgent investigation into the circumstances surrounding Khumalo’s death. Hlengiwe Khumalo says she was shocked when she saw the conditions under which her father was being kept. Khumalo says, “When I walked into the hospital yesterday morning and I saw those structures it was extremely emotional for me, I couldn’t believe that’s where my father had spent his last few hours of being alive. I was in complete shock and that is the reason that I decided to then take a video of those structures because I was in utter disbelief. This is Northdale Hospital in Pietermaritzburg. These are make shift shelters where they keep Covid19 patients. It’s a parking lot covered with tent like material on the sides. My father took his last breath here on Saturday at 2am. @kznhealth @DrZweliMkhize pic.twitter.com/EzTZF6a93K — Hlengiwe Khumalo (@mamntungwa) August 3, 2020  She says she wants those responsible for her father’s death to be held accountable. “I want people fired, people must be fired whoever came up with that plan that there must be structures that must be set up in a parking lot with no heat, with no blanket, whoever convened that meeting where they decided that – okay fine this is the plan we are gonna go with, I want all of those people fired. The KZN department, they have reached out to us, so did the Premier’s office reached out and told us that they are investigating,” says Khumalo. #sabcnews #sabckzn The family of a 67 year patient who died at the Northdale hospital in Pietermaritzburg is demanding answers from the KZN department of Health. The patient Sibusiso Khumalo had been placed at a makeshift structure at the facility after being admitted. pic.twitter.com/pTHmA078yh — Nonkululeko Hlophe (@Leko3) August 4, 2020 