The Letlhogil Royal family in Ganyesa in the North West has accused the Local Government Department of incorrectly interpreting its chain of succession. They say this has resulted in the rightful chief being denied the right to rule and the royal council being disbanded. Community services rendered by the council at a tribal level have been hampered and residents have been affected. The Letlhogile family is divided over the chieftaincy dispute. Gomolemo Letlhogile, who claims to be the rightful chief, says the family tree which had the correct information as to who the rightful chief was, was presented to them in 2017 but another was presented in 2019 with names of people not directly related to the Letlhogile family. He claims that Local Government tampered with his family tree and has called on Premier Job Mokgoro to accelerate the process in resolving the impasse which is now hampering services the tribal authority render to the community. “The chieftaincy was supposed to have been taken by Letlhogile Abram Letlhogile but the uncle Kegakilwe took over and that’s where everything went wrong. The members of the senior house of Letlhogile Abram Letlhogile are the ones who are the rightful royalties,” says Kgosi Gomolemo. Community members have aired their dissatisfaction with the situation. “As community members, we are disturbed by this royal dispute and we are most affected. Services have come to a standstill because most of the developments applications are spearheaded by the tribal authority.” “We would like government to speed up the process of resolving this matter. This has really troubled us.” Meanwhile, the North West House of Traditional Leaders says they are aware of the dispute. Chairperson Kgosi Moshe Mabe says, “The case of their claim is investigated. We have advised the premier to take the necessary steps so as to attend to the matter because if the matter will need a thorough investigation or may warrant a commission of inquiry the premier will decide. But it’s a matter that has been there for several years, it cannot be wished away.” The Department of Local Government declined to give details on the matter saying a task team was appointed to investigate all royal disputes across the province. Once the investigation is complete a report will be handed to Premier Job Mokgoro. 