African National Congress (ANC) alliance partners in the Free State have called for the tendering system to be abolished. This follows reports on coronavirus (COVID-19) contracts in the province that have been awarded to the sons of the former premier and now ANC Secretary General, Ace Magashule. The alliance partners are also calling for the investigations on the matter. South African National Civic Organisation (Sanco) Provincial Secretary, Bakoena Ramosie says the tendering system is the root of corruption. “It is high time that we must abolish this tendering system and introduce corporative systems. Because with corporative, we know that many community members will be involved in providing services unlike the tendering system whereby an individual is always benefiting and you find that those individuals are, most of the time, involved in corruption.” The Democratic Alliance (DA) in the Free State has called on President Cyril Ramaphosa to deal with what they call Magashule’s web of capture in the province. The party says it is not shocked by the latest revelations that Magashule son’s have clinched COVID-19 contracts. Free State DA Chief Whip, David van Vuuren, says the party will ask the MEC to provide the report on the procurement processes. “It is unacceptable that the former premier uses his powers and influence to benefit out of these contracts. We are going to put pressure on the ANC to investigate this matter. Unfortunately, it is evident that Magashule is still in control in the Free State and that his tentacles are deeply entrenched in the finances in the Free State. We are also going to ask President Cyril Ramaphosa to investigate this matter and it is now time that he stands up and shows that he has a backbone, to stand up against Ace Magashule.” Fighting corruption Writing in his weekly letter to the nation on Monday, President Cyril Ramaphosa decried the entrenched patronage networks that enable government employees to bid for state contracts as well as other acts of corruption. He warns that those found to have broken the law to enrich themselves through this crisis will not get to enjoy their spoils, regardless of who they are or with whom they may be connected. Alleged irregularities in Gauteng Following the leave of absence of Presidential Spokesperson Khusela Diko and Gauteng Health MEC Dr Bandile Masuku amid a scandal over alleged irregularities relating to Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) tender worth R125 million, Gauteng ANC says it is committed to combatting corruption in government. The tender was awarded to Royal Bhaca, a company owned by Diko’s husband, King Madzikane II Diko. ANC removes those involved in alleged tender irregularities: 