The United Nations Security Council (UNSC) will hold an emergency session on the situation in Mali on Wednesday afternoon after a meeting was requested by France and Niger. The country’s President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita resigned on Tuesday and dissolved parliament after mutinying soldiers detained him at gunpoint. The Council’s move coincides with the UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres condemnation of the actions by the soldiers and his call for the immediate restoration of constitutional order and the rule of law in the country. Guterres has also demanded the immediate and unconditional release of the President and members of his Cabinet. The UN Chief reiterated his calls for a negotiated solution and peaceful resolution of their differences and expressed his full support to the African Union (AU) and the Economic Community of West African States (ECWAS) in their efforts to find a peaceful solution to the current crisis, including through the good offices of the UN in that country. The Security Council has deployed over 15000 personnel to Mali as part of its Peacekeeping Operation there. The video below is on mutinying soldiers detaining President Ibrahim Boubacar Keïta and PM Boubou Cissé:  UN chief calls for the immediate release of Mali president, others “The Secretary-General … calls for the immediate restoration of constitutional order and rule of law in Mali,” UN spokesperson Stephane Dujarric said in a statement. Soldiers had earlier in the day mutinied at the Kati military base about 15 km outside of Bamako and rounded up a number of senior civilian and military officials. A spokesman for Keita could not be reached for comment. A mutiny in 2012 at the Kati base led to a military coup that toppled then-President Amadou Toumani Toure and hastened the fall of Mali’s north to jihadist militants, who continue to operate across the north and centre of the West African country. Keita has faced mass protests since June calling for his resignation over alleged corruption and worsening security.
Earlier on Tuesday, Prime Minister Boubou Cisse issued a brief statement calling for dialogue and urging mutinous soldiers to stand down. The United States, France and the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) all condemned the mutiny. Statement from the UN Secretary General’s Spokesperson on Mali #sabcnews pic.twitter.com/MfiWGleB90 — Sherwin Bryce-Pease (@sherwiebp) August 18, 2020 