The African National Congress (ANC) Women’s League in the North West says it is not pleased with the work done by the party’s Interim Provincial Committee (IPC). The league says, according to them very little good has been done by the committee instead they continue to cause division and factionalism within the party. IPC was appointed more than a year ago to run the ANC’s affairs in the province. The IPC is an interim structure supposed to unite members of the ANC and to launch branches prior to the provincial conference. It was established last year following the disbandment of the provincial task team led by Premier Job Mokgoro. Now, the IPC is facing criticism from within their own ranks. The women’s league alleges that the IPC is not keeping to its mandate but instead, they are creating factions and fail to take action against corruption in municipalities such as the Ngaka Modiri Molema District Municipality in Mahikeng and Tlokwe Local Municipality in Potchefstroom. Secretary of the women’s league Bitsa Lenkopane say female mayors are being targeted. “We have evidence that can be tested that is why we have decided to go out and communicate to say when we have these women as the faces of the campaign in 2016, where we are having our share of 50%, understanding the collective leadership that we had our inputs. In this IPC for a period of nine months, we tried to get engagements and we never had.” ANCWL accuses interim committee of creating divisions, factionalism:  However, the IPC in the province says it has already engaged the national leadership of the ANC Women’s League. Consultation with the other structures of the party it is still ongoing. Spokesperson for the IPC Kenny Morolong says that the ongoing engagements have been extended to all structures. “This ongoing engagement have consisted with convention being extended to all structures of the organisation and the alliance. Our structures and alliance partners have a deeper understanding and appreciation of organisational protocol and processes including all principles that matters of the organisation must be sufficiently ventilated internally before any public pronouncement can be made.” Political analyst from the North West University Andre Duvenhage believes this is all a struggle for power. “It is clear that there is a huge battle between the one side of the Premier Job Mokgoro and on the other side, the strong man Supra Mahumapelo and if we look at action taken for example at Ruth Mompati, Matlosana, Maquassie Hills, Mahikeng, Ditsobotla and so on … it is clear that it has to do with politics.” The league says they will continue to engage with the IPC hoping that their concerns will be addressed.