The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) in Gauteng are calling for lifestyle audits into everyone involved in procuring personal protective equipment (PPEs) for COVID-19. This follows a decision by the African National Congress (ANC) to place Gauteng Health MEC Bandile Masuku and his wife, Loyiso, on a leave of absence following their alleged involved in a PPE tender irregularity. Loyiso Masuku is a member of the Mayoral Committee in the City of Johannesburg. The EFF says the ANC Provincial Integrity Committee is just a structure used to shield and protect wrongdoing and cannot be trusted to conduct fair investigation on the matter. Masuku allegedly influenced the procurement of a R125 million COVID-19 PPE contract to Royal Bhaca Projects, a company owned by a family friend, AmaBhaca King Thandisizwe Diko. Diko is the husband of the President’s Spokesperson Khusela Diko. Last week, Khusela Diko took a leave of absence from her duties while the matter is being investigated by the Special Investigation Unit (SIU). In the video below, Gauteng ANC asks Masuku and Diko to step aside pending a probe:  “We are aware that we are dealing with a syndicate where the MEC, his wife Loyiso, Khusela Diko and the Provincial Secretary are a family. Possibilities are high that this issue may be manipulated and a different outcome reached,” says the EFF. The EFF says the Masukus and Dikos should be further investigated by the SIU for possible conflicts of interests. Call for special audits Meanwhile, the Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP) wants the Auditor General’s intervention, by doing special audits of COVID-19 related expenditure. The party says it supports the publications of all companies who won contracts for PPEs. However, it must be inclusive of all government departments. “However, this should form part of an integrated plan which is going to factor in all government departments’ procurement during this time. Solely focusing on the Department of Health would be in itself a half-baked exercise moreover the law enforcement agencies need to move with the necessary speed in this regard. The IFP further implores the AG to performs special audits of COVID-19 related expenditure,” says Mkhuleko Hlengwa, IFP MP. In the video below, King Thandisizwe Diko says the Gauteng ANC decision’s on tender scandal is irrational:  