The African National Congress (ANC) in North West has suspended the membership of its 15 councillors at the Ramotshere Moiloa Local Municipality in Zeerust. The party accuses them of defying the caucus’ instructions by removing their mayor and the speaker and electing their preferred candidates. The embattled Ramotshere Moiloa Municipality has been in the news for a while. The municipal council recently elected a new speaker, municipal mayor and her mayoral committee. This action is viewed by the ANC as ill-discipline. The party has now taken action against all the implicated councillors. A spokesperson for the ANC Interim Provincial Committee, Kenny Morolong says, “The interim Provincial Working Committee of the ANC in the North West province has resolved in accordance with rule 25.6 of the ANC constitution, to place on temporarily suspension 15 of its councillors deployed at the Ramotshere Moiloa Local Municipality. These temporary suspensions shall remain in force until the finalisation of the disciplinary proceedings.” Those implicated have refuted allegations of defying the party. A spokesperson Alfred Nyamane says, “We will forever be humble to the ANC. We will forever listen to the ANC, but you know that all the political mandates come from the ANC, but in this one, the ANC cannot say we are defying the caucus. The caucus of Ramotshere Moiloa is united. The caucus of Ramotshere is busy trying to deliver services to the people.” Nyamane has also confirmed that he’s still a legitimate councillor. This is after the party wrote to the Independent Electoral Committee in the province, informing it about his removal from the party list. “My lawyer is dealing with it. My lawyer is an ANC member, so we hope that my lawyer will deal with everything. But, as we speak right now, I can confirm to you that two days ago I had a council sitting as the Speaker of Ramotshere Moiloa Local Municipality. As a PR councillor of Ramotshere Moiloa Local Municipality, the IEC can attest to you that I am still the PR I am still the councillor of Ramotshere Moiloa. I am still the Speaker of the Ramotshere Moiloa Municipality.” Nyamane is expected to appear before the party’s Disciplinary Committee on Wednesday. 