The African National Congress (ANC) says any party or government official involved in corruption must be brought to book and law enforcement agencies must do their work without fear or favour. The ANC has faced much criticism on social media following allegations of widespread graft linked to PPE contracts awarded during the coronavirus lockdown. ANC Secretary-General Ace Magashule says, “The position of the ANC is that we must deal with corruption. It doesn’t matter who it involves whether it’s a politician who is well-known; whether it is a businessman who’s well-known; whether it’s a leader of the ANC. Without fear, without prejudice, the law enforcement agencies, the organs of state, which will do whatever they have to do in terms of the law and constitution of SA let them do their work.” In the video below, Ace Magashule on allegations of PPEs – Part 1:  Magashule says all COVID-19 related corruption must be investigated objectively. On Tuesday, the ANC released a post-NEC statement of the meeting held last weekend, where it said it was “embarrassed” by claims of corruption involving its members. Corruption within the party’s ranks has come into sharp focus after media reports implicated President Cyril Ramaphosa’s spokesperson Khusela Diko in alleged corruption in a PPE tender procurement in Gauteng. ‘Don’t divert attention’ Magashule’s sons are also reported to have been awarded contracts in the Free State. Speaking to the SABC, Magashule maintains that attention must not be diverted from what he calls real corrupt individuals. “Don’t target certain people, don’t divert attention from the fact that million and billion and trillions in this COVID are actually being taken and whenever there’s a thing something comes in to divert the attention from the real people who are eating into, who are thieves and who are actually making sure that to divert the attention of South Africans.” In the video below, Ace Magashule on ANC NEC outcomes, other issues affecting the party – Part 2:  Misuse of COVID-19 relief funds Last week President Ramaphosa signed a proclamation for the SIU to investigate allegations relating to the misuse of COVID-19 relief funds. And on Thursday, he announced the formation of Ministerial Committee to investigate allegations of corruption related to the procurement of personal protective equipment. The Committee comprises seven Cabinet Ministers and will be headed by Justice and Correctional Services Minister Ronald Lamola. Finance Minister Tito Mboweni also announced on Wednesday that an investigation into companies that won contracts to supply COVID-19 PPE will include the company’s date of establishment, registration with SARS as well as the Company Registration Office.