The family of the missing 12-year-old girl from Khayelitsha on the Cape Flats is appealing for any information that could lead to her safe return. Lunamandla Sithonga disappeared over a month ago.  She was last seen by the driver of the transport that dropped her at her school in Mitchell’s Plain on the 9th of July. The family says it’s anxious for a word on their much-loved daughter. The grade six learner was last seen by her mother when she left for school. The girl’s aunt, Ntomboxolo Sithonga, says a search by the Pink Ladies organisation, the police and others have not produced any results. “They tried to take the police and the dogs and go there to school to check if they are going to get something and then the dogs, they got nothing,” says Sithonga. Sithonga is pleading for help in finding Lunamandla. “Anyone who has seen the clothes or the body or whatever just please tell us because we need Lunamandla back, we really need her back and we need her back alive. That’s what we want and always pray for. We want Lunamadla to come back home,”says Sithonga. Western Cape police have confirmed the girl’s disappearance. However, they say the finer aspects of the case cannot be disclosed, due to the sensitive nature of the investigation. Meanwhile, there is still no breakthrough in the disappearance of a three-year-old boy from Imizamo Yethu informal settlement in Hout Bay. The toddler, Anothando Mhlontlo, went missing on Monday. Community leader, Thabisile Nqweniso says his whereabouts are still unknown despite a wide-scale search by the Hout Bay community. “The community feels devastated. Everyone is under a lot of pressure and a lot of stress because the child hasn’t been found and there is no clue where the child is, there’s no leads at all,” says Nqweniso. Police say they are investigating both children’s disappearances. #MissingChildAlertSouthAfrica Lunamandla Jakes Sithonga (12) was last seen 9 July 2020. If you personally, or your company | or your place of work, would like to make a donation to #MCSA, please click here to donate: https://t.co/cjFxxi4knV pic.twitter.com/ajuXbmSZuX — Missing Children SA (@072MISSING) July 13, 2020 