North West Premier, Job Mokgoro, has described the failure of some Provincial Executive Council members to perform as deeply embarrassing. He was speaking during a meeting with the provincial Legislature’s Chairpersons’ Forum in Mahikeng. The forum summoned Mokgoro to account on some MECs’ failure to implement the legislature’s resolutions. The Legislature Chairpersons’ Forum comprises of all chairpersons of the portfolio committees the provincial legislature. These are oversight committees that are responsible for holding the executive accountable. The forum summoned premier Mokgoro this week to raise concerns about the performance of his executive committee members. “There is generally insufficient or poor performance because we have a scenario where departments are not even getting closer to achieve in their targets. The audit opinion from the AG and other institutions supporting democracy like the public protector and the public service commission, their recommendations are not being implemented by various departments including municipalities. No action is being taken,” says The forum’s chairperson Mmoloki Cwaile says they have also raised concerns regarding the appointment of administrators to municipalities which have been placed under administration. “Administrators deployed to the municipalities were just taken from the streets and no proper selection or recruitment process for the public sector. They were not subjected to vetting but they were made to preside even as acting municipal managers, CFOs at different municipalities, and it is both historical and contemporary that the performance of section 139 administrators have not been satisfactorily or changed any material conditions of the municipalities.” Premier Mokgoro has conceded that the performance of most of his MECs is below average. “Performance leaves much to be desired and I have found that where our expenditure is high, then it is not matched by practical delivery on the ground. We cannot be treating our people like that. There are instances where we are not spending the money that we have on infrastructure, such as pit-latrines. Two consecutive financial years’ money that was set aside for this purpose was returned because we did not spent it.” In the video below, Mokgoro summoned over performance of some of his officials:  A political analyst from the North West University, Dr Oshupeng Maseng, says members of the legislature are using the service delivery challenges in the province for political gain. “However, we must also consider that there might be a bit of politicking behind in a sense that, when you look at legislation, legislation actually allows the provincial legislature to convene the premier to fire those who are within the executive council. So it might be politicking at the same time, not genuinely concerns on service delivery.” Meanwhile, Mokgoro says he will conduct an investigation into some of the concerns raised that members of the provincial legislature have raised and under-performers will be severely dealt with.