The Zulu Royal Household says the recent deaths of several senior royals from the AmaZulu Royal family has been devastating to King Goodwill Zwelithini. On Friday, the royal family laid to rest King Zwelithini’s brother, Prince Milton Zulu of the Ezibindini Royal House of King Solomon. Prince Zulu, who was also a national executive member of the Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP), died on Wednesday at the age of 45. He is the third senior member of the royal family to have died recently. This follows the passing of Princesses Nobuhle and Busi of the Mbelebeleni Royal House and Queen Noloyiso Sandile who was the Queen Regent of the AmaRharhabe Kingdom in the Eastern Cape. A spokesperson for the Zulu Royal House Prince Thulani Zulu says the household wished to pass on condolences to his majesty. “The Zulu royalty is mourning the death of several princes and princesses that have died unexpectedly these days. We are very sorry about this and we wish to pass our condolences, especially to the Majesty the King because yesterday, on Friday, we were burying Prince Milton Zulu of Ezibindini. We are so devastated about this death.” Earlier, the National House of Traditional Leaders also expressed sadness and shock at the death of Prince Mandla Zulu. ‘Outstanding leader, community builder’ President Cyril Ramaphosa has expressed his sadness at the passing of Prince Mandla Zulu. Ramaphosa has described him as an outstanding leader and community builder at such a youthful age. In a statement, the President said his thoughts and prayers are with the family. “My heart goes out to His Majesty King Goodwill Zwelithini and the royal household at the passing of an outstanding leader and community builder at such a youthful age; a passing that compounds the grief already experienced by the royal family in recent weeks.” @MYANC joins the people of KwaZulu Natal and the rest of the country in conveying condolences to His Majesty King Zwelithini Goodwill Kabhekuzulu on the passing of his brother Prince Mandla Zulu. #RIPPrinceMandlaZulu pic.twitter.com/ZycslywLrY — African National Congress (@MYANC) August 8, 2020 