The African National Congress (ANC) says it is outraged and embarrassed by corruption allegations leveled against some of its members who are said to have unlawfully benefitted from coronavirus funds. The allegations of corruption in the procurement of essential materials to combat the COVID-19 pandemic topped the agenda of the party’s National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting which took place from 31 July to 2 August. “These developments cause us collectively to dip our heads in shame and to humble ourselves before the people. We acknowledge the justifiable public outrage caused by the depravity and heartlessness displayed by some elements in government, our organisation, and the private sector. We, unequivocally, condemn all forms of corruption, dishonesty, and state capture involving the public and private sectors, including collusion, price-fixing, tender fraud, bribery, illicit financial flows, illegal imports and misuse of tax havens,” says the organisation in a statement. ANC spokesperson Pule Mabe spoke to SABC’s Palesa Chubisi:  Amongst those implicated in corruption allegations is Presidential Spokesperson Khusela Diko’s husband King Thandisizwe Diko who has been at the centre of the PPE contract scandal in Gauteng. Khusela Diko last week took a leave of absence after allegations surfaced claiming that her husband’s company received an R125 million PPE tender through a friendship with Gauteng Health MEC Bandile Masuku. Masuku and his wife Loyiso, MMC in the City of Johannesburg, have also taken a leave of absence while the matter is being probed by the Special Investigation Unit (SIU). The party has committed to fight corruption. “We will comprehensively fight corruption, combining both prevention and punishment. Those who loot
public resources must face the might of the law,” said the party in a statement. The meeting also reflected on the legacy of anti-apartheid stalwart Andrew Mlangeni who was buried last week. “The NEC reflected on the legacy of a humble giant whose life was characterised by courage, unwavering commitment to the people, ethical leadership, and the renewal of the ANC.” Pressure mounts on ANC to equip and empower its Integrity Commission:  Below is the ANC statement after its NEC meeting: 