The case against the man accused of stabbing African National Congress (ANC) veteran, Mapiti Matsena to death has been postponed to October in the Pretoria North Magistrates’ Court. Matsena was stabbed about 15 times in the chest at his home in Doornpoort in Pretoria in July. At the time, he was head of the Gauteng Community Safety Portfolio Committee. The state asked for the postponement because they are still waiting for the post mortem report. The 29-year-old faces a charge of murder. Matsena’s brother, Abel said outside court the accused is not a family member, but that he stayed at Matsena’s house earlier this year. “He’s not a family friend, he just raised from the same village as my brother. He’s not a family member and my brother normally wants to take people to help them to work at his place. Yes he stays there, that’s why he also does this dirty job for himself. He knows the terrain very well.” Matsena was stabbed several times in the neck, head and chest. His son was a witness to the attack. Abel Matsena says they believe the accused wanted to plead guilty on Monday, saying he indicated in court several times he wanted to speak, but his lawyer prevented him. “Today’s proceeding was not fair based on the accused wanted to confess something, but his legal team just opposed. And he did more than three times, he raised his hand and he wants to confess. He also asked for forgiveness from the family. He just raised his hand to the family so they can forgive him. But he wants to say something despite the legal representative which is unfair for the family.” Matsena’s wife and family members started crying in court when the accused appeared. Some family members asked him if he is satisfied that Matsena is dead, that he has a dirty heart, and asked him to tell the truth about the incident. Abel Matsena says the court proceedings are really difficult for the family but they want to attend. “The family, we try to adjust ourselves but based on today’s proceeding it draws us back to the starting point.” The motive for the attack is still unclear. “From the investigation team it seems he had a quarrel or it was anger that he sustained for more than six months, and he wanted to discharge it now. Some people speculate whether it is a political motive or what but let’s give the investigation team to check on that.” The accused will appear in court again on the 13th of October.