The Liberty Fighters Network and lawyers representing Cooperative Governance Minister, Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, are preparing to return to court on Tuesday. The case between the two parties pertains to the legality of the National State of Disaster and the Disaster Management regulation – after the High Court in Pretoria declared lockdown levels three and four invalid and unconstitutional. The Liberty Fighters Network wants the ruling – that was delivered in June – to be declared operational and effective, regardless of any on-going appeals. Dlamini-Zuma is currently appealing the matter. The Infographic below provides a comprehensive outline of sectors permitted under Level 2 lockdown: sabcnews.com | SABC News channel | SABC Radio news SA COVID-19 LOCKDOWN LEVEL 2 TRANSPORT RESTRICTIONS Domestic air travel restored. Car rental services restored. Movement between provinces at Level 1 and 2 restrictions. MOVEMENT RESTRICTIONS SECTORS PERMITTED Moderate virus spread, with moderate ﻿readiness Source: South African government All  retail Construction LEVEL 2 All other manufacturing Mining  All mines at 100% capacity All government services Installation Repairs Maintenance Domestic work and cleaningservices Informal waste pickers RETAIL LEVEL 2 LEVEL 2 RENTAL (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); President of the Liberty Fighters Network, Reyno De Beer, says the lockdown regulations, amid the coronavirus pandemic, is causing a negative economic impact on South Africans. “The government did not have sufficient evidence in order to put us under a hard lockdown. Unfortunately, we know that our economy suffered tremendously, many of our basic human rights were violated in the process. We believe that every South African has the right to look after themselves health-wise. The whole lockdown regulations that were promulgated were totally unconstitutional, irrational and invalid – as the court agreed with us and unfortunately we are not stuck in an appeal process.” President Cyril Ramaphosa addresses the nation on Lockdown Level 2: 