Opposition parties have called for an investigation into the COVID-19 contracts awarded in the Free State. This comes after revelations that the sons of African National Congress (ANC) Secretary-General, Ace Magashule, received COVID-19 contracts worth more than R2.7 million. Both Motheko Projects and Marvel Deeds appear on the list of companies that secured contracts and Magashule’s sons are listed as directors. The provincial finance department has confirmed that the two companies, Motheko Projects and Marvel Deeds, are among more than 440 companies that were awarded contracts in the province. The department has, however, denied allegations that the relationship between the MEC of Finance and Magashule played a role in the awarding of the contracts to his sons. However, opposition parties are crying foul. Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) Chairperson, Mandisa Makheseni, says it is not only Ace Magashule’s sons that have secured COVID-19 contracts in the province. “We expected this. It’s not only the sons of Magashule, most of the children related to the leadership of the ANC , their family members, their wives they are part of the scandal of the PPEs in the province. Let everyone who is implicated be investigated and all of them they must face the full might of the law. We will assist the police, we will give them names of the companies of those who are still hiding that benefited from these PPEs,” says Makheseni. In the video below, storm over the Free State COVID-19 tender contracts:  Free State Democratic Alliance (DA) Chief Whip, David van Vuuren, has called for action to be taken against those implicated. “It is unacceptable that the former premier uses his powers and influence to benefit out of these contracts. We’re going to put pressure on the ANC to investigate this matter, unfortunately it is evident that Magashule is still in control in the Free State and that his tentacles are deeply entrenched in the finances in the Free State. We’re also going to ask President Cyril Ramaphosa to investigate this matter and it is now time that he stands up and shows that he has backbone to stand up against Ace Magashule,” says Van Vuuren. The FF Plus member in the provincial legislature, Devar Smit, also weighed in. “Allegations that tenders for PPEs in the Free State were allocated to the sons of Ace Magashule once again shows that the ANC does not care about the people but only cares about enriching themselves. The FF Plus will continue fighting to combat this type of tenders,” says Smit. Magashule’s son, Tshepiso, has declined to comment on the matter. Meanwhile, in a statement the department says the MEC of Finance, Gadija Brown, has requested an audit on COVID-19 procurement. Treasury say it will ensure that consequence management will be effected where proper procedures were not followed. Below is a discussion on COVID-19 tender corruption and impact on South Africa’s reputation: 