The family of slain Asithandile Zozo from Dutywa in the Eastern Cape wants justice to be swift and harsh for her killer. It is alleged that the 19-year-old girl, known as Kwasa, was stabbed several times by a jealous boyfriend who refused to accept she wanted to end the relationship. Zozo was a first-year student at Wits University. She was murdered on Monday. Another senseless murder and another devastated family. Kwasa’s family says she had high hopes for the future, studying biochemistry. The people of Dutywa are now saying, enough is enough. Dressed in black, the community, including learners, marched to the Dutywa Magistrate’s court to voice their anger and frustration against violence perpetrated towards women. Zozo’s relative, Anelisa Mniki says they are still coming to terms with the loss, “It’s so unreal I haven’t even accepted it, he tried to kill her in front of me and I even tried to protect her then. I was not there to protect her this time around, part of me is happy that he is alive because then if he died that would mean he got an easy way out of the whole situation. He has to be jailed.” The community wants the law dealing with femicide to be tightened, as march organiser, Sinesipho Mniki elaborates. “We are tired madoda! How long should we live like this? We can’t be treated like animals that are going to be slaughtered for rituals, enough is enough!” The suspect was released from hospital on Tuesday after recovering from a suicide attempt. Eastern Cape Police Spokesperson, Brigadier Thembinkosi Kinana says they have a watertight case. “We are happy and satisfied that the investigation is progressing well and we appeal to the community as well as the family to be patient in our investigation.” The case against the accused has been postponed to the 26th of this month where he is expected to apply for bail. Family and friends of the deceased are calling on the court to refuse bail. Zozo will be buried on Saturday. March against gender-based violence:  STATEMENT: Kwasa Zozo Lugalo, a determined & driven young women, was murdered by a man she chose not to have a relationship with. Women are being murdered in shocking numbers by men in SA.We are tired of mourning the loss of  the lives of women. Rest in peace. #JusticeForKwasa pic.twitter.com/IkvMN5MCVy — Wits University (@WitsUniversity) August 18, 2020  My little sister's friend, a beautiful joy to me and my family. She was stabbed to death by a boy because she didn't want him. I don't even know what to say. Ngxesi Malebomvu ntombi encinci. Uphumle ngoxolo#JusticeForKwasa #RIPKwasa pic.twitter.com/Ys1aFdwpJv — Zozibini Tunzi (@zozitunzi) August 18, 2020  Im so heart broken. Im speechless. Yoh! The men in our society!!! I can't even say rest in peace cause this is wrong!!! How do you rest in peace when your life has been cut short? #JusticeForKwasa pic.twitter.com/lIDPXWpbRC — R.M Phoolo (@casspernyovest) August 18, 2020 