Parliament will this week debate the scandals surrounding the awarding of COVID-19 related tenders. There are widespread allegations of corruption in the awarding of tenders for COVID-19 personal protective equipment (PPE). Three African National Congress (ANC) members are on leave of absence following allegations of impropriety in the awarding of tenders to Royal Bhaca Projects. On Wednesday, Treasury will brief a joint meeting of the Committees of Finance on the procurement of PPEs. Last week, Finance Minister Tito Mboweni called for provincial Health MECs to publish a list of all the companies that have been awarded COVID-19 tenders on their websites for transparency and accountability. Officials on leave of absence Presidential spokesperson Khusela Diko, Gauteng Health MEC Dr Bandile Masuku and his wife Loyiso Masuku have taken a leave of absence amid alleged irregularities relating to a R125-million PPE tender. The tender was awarded to Royal Bhaca Projects, a company owned by Diko’s husband Madzikane II Diko. The Gauteng Provincial Executive Committee has since taken a resolution that Diko and the Masuku’s appear before the ANC’s provincial Integrity Committee. The party has also urged the Special Investigating Unit to act with urgency when probing tender irregularities:  Alleged tender fraud in the Free State Opposition parties have called for an investigation into the awarding of COVID-19 contracts worth over R2.7-million to the sons of Free State Premier Ace Magashule. The provincial Finance Department confirmed that Motheko Projects and Marvel Deeds appear on the list of companies that secured contracts and Magashule’s sons are listed as directors. The department has since denied allegations that the relationship between the MEC of Finance and Magashule played a role in the awarding of the contracts to his sons. Opposition parties are, however, crying foul saying that it is unacceptable for Magashule to abuse his powers to unduly benefit from the contracts:  -Additional reporting by Makgala Masiteng