A 19-year-old Durban University of Technology (DUT) student is seeking justice after she was raped allegedly by two brothers, one who is a fellow student, in July. A rape case has been opened at a local police station. A night out with friends turned grim for the student who shared her ordeal under condition of anonymity. She says she wants justice not just for herself, but others who may have suffered the same fate. The Durban University of Technology has responded to enquirers from the SABC regarding the matter and has confirmed they will comment in due course. “I opened a rape case against two brothers, there hasn’t been much progress on this case. I want justice, I want them to be arrested. I also wrote an anonymous piece and after writing that a couple of girls also said the same guy had attempted to do the same to them, they also shared their stories.” “I want this guy to be arrested because he is a dangerous person and he is capable of anything, he is very manipulative. I want justice since no one has been arrested as yet,” adds the student. KwaZulu-Natal police spokesperson Thembeka Mbhele has confirmed that police are investigating the matter. “On the 3rd of July this year, a 19-year-old girl was allegedly raped by known men on Fordicks Road in Glenmore. A case of rape was opened at Umbilo police station and assigned to the Brighton Beach FCS Unit for investigation. The docket was sent to the public prosecutor for decision and we are awaiting the results,” explains Mbhele. Meanwhile, police in the Eastern Cape are investigating the murder of a 20-year-old woman, allegedly at the hands of her boyfriend. The hashtag #JusticeforKwasa is trending after details emerged of how Kwasa Zozo Lugalo, a student at Wits University, attempted to leave the abusive relationship shortly before her death. The police’s Tembinkosi Kinana says a 23-year-old suspect is being investigated for her death. Kinana says, “The suspect is alleged to have attempted suicide immediately after committing this particular crime is currently admitted in hospital. Once he is discharged the police will charge him with murder.”