The African National Congress (ANC) has commended South Africans for their contribution in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic. This as the country prepares to move into level 2 of the coronavirus lockdown, which will commence from Monday at midnight. A number of economic activity will resume under level 2, including the sale of tobacco and alcohol. ANC Spokesperson Pule Mabe says it now up to South Africans to continue to adhere to all lockdown regulations. The Democratic Alliance (DA) says there is no need for the  National State of Disaster to be extended now that the country will be moving to alert level 2 of the coronavirus lockdown. The party has been long calling for an immediate end of the nationwide lockdown in favour of saving the country’s ailing economy. DA interim leader John Steenhuisen says the 10pm curfew will also be a challenge to some sectors especially the hospitality and tourism industry. sabcnews.com | SABC News Channel | SABC Radio news LOCKDOWN LEVEL 2 What You Need To Know Restaurants may remain open, ﻿with a curfew between 10pm and 4am Alcohol maybe served in all licensed restaurants Visits to family and friends are permitted in small groups Hotel and accommodation facilities may reopen for leisure Travel between provinces is allowed for any purpose Gym and fitness centres will reopen with strict health and safety protocols in place sabcnews.com | SABC News Channel | SABC Radio news (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) has rejected the easing of the lockdown restrictions, saying the decision to ease the restrictions was based on manipulated data and under-testing of the coronavirus. President Cyril Ramaphosa announced that the country will move the level 2 of the lockdown from midnight on Monday, which will give way to a number of economic activities including the sale of alcohol and tobacco. EFF spokesperson Vuyani Pambo says the lifting of the ban on alcohol and tobacco will be counterproductive. Meanwhile, the Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP) says it welcomes, with caution, the easing of lockdown restrictions. IFP spokesperson Mkhuleko Hlengwa says the lifting of the alcohol ban may bring negative results in the fight against pandemic if there are no efforts to address behavioural changes:. The African Christian Democratic Party (ACDP) is concerned about the curfew set under alert level 2 of the lockdown. ACDP leader Reverend Kenneth Meshoe says it will have a negative impact on businesses that close shop late in the night. However, the Freedom Front Plus says the decision to move the country to level two lockdown is a little too late since the economy has already been severely damaged. FFPlus leader Pieter Groenewald says the country could have moved to level two much earlier, which could have saved some jobs and prevent the government from losing revenue. He says the move by government came as a result of public pressure and mounting court cases. The United Democratic Movement (UDM) has urged government to approach matters of national disaster with flexibility in future to avoid unnecessary job losses and other economic setbacks. In the video below, South Africa to enter into lockdown level 2 lockdown:  