The Gauteng Education Department is expecting 1.5 million learners to return to school on Monday. It’s part of the phased approach of getting children back into the classroom to complete the academic year. The province expects that there’ll be a higher movement of people under Alert Level 2 of the lockdown. Over 2 000 government-funded Early Childhood Development Centres will also open their doors on Monday. Head of the Education Department, Edward Mosuwe, says mainstream schools and schools for children with special needs will resume teaching. “The total number of learners that are coming back on Monday, we are getting learners that are in Grade R, 1, 2, 9, 10 and 11. If you add all of these numbers we are looking at over a million 500 learners that will be back into the system and that is a big number. Social distancing still has to be maintained, proper hygiene protocols still have to be maintained,” says Mosuwe. HOD @emaster_mosuwe updates the public on Schools Reopening 1/3 @Lesufi pic.twitter.com/pzBBZs4uz6 — Gauteng Department of Education (GDE) (@educationgp) August 21, 2020   #ReopeningSchools schedule for 24 &31 Aug. Some schools returned other grades with Gr 12 learners having sought &received approval from Provincial Offices. I want to urge parents to phone their school for more info on procedures & protocols for returning grades @DBE_SA @GCISMedia pic.twitter.com/ReVFrJVmhW — Dr Reginah Mhaule (@ReginahMhaule) August 20, 2020  Revised school calendar for 2020 Earlier this month, the department released a revised school calendar following a delay in the school year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. According to the calendar, schools will resume on 24 August. There will be a one-week break from 26-30 October that will mark the end of the third term. The fourth term begins on 2 November, with Grades 1-11 closing on 15 December for the rest of the year. Grade 12 examinations will be done by 15 December and results will be released on 23 February 2021. Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga has warned that the effects of the coronavirus pandemic will be with schools for at least three years. Public schools will not be able to complete 2020 curriculum this year: Motshekga 