The grandchildren of Inkosi uMadzikane have joined South Africans in asking for a thorough investigation of alleged corruption following the controversial tender awarded to their brother, Thandisizwe Diko. Diko’s company was awarded a R125 million personal protective equipment (PPE) tender by Gauteng Health. Diko’s wife, Spokesperson for the Presidency, Khusela Diko and Gauteng Health MEC Dr Bandile Masuku have since taken leave of absence pending an investigation into their influence in the tender process. Thandisizwe Diko says Khusela Diko and Dr Bandile Masuku’s leave of absence is both unfortunate and irrational:  King Madzinake’s grandchildren say they are disappointed by the corruption allegations. One of the grandchildren, Simphiwe Bhaca Makaula, said in a statement that they are disappointed by the insensitivity of those engaging in corrupt activities while the country battles the COVID-19 pandemic. “We are saddened by the insensitivity displayed by all those involved who, when our country is battling the COVID-19 pandemic and is trying to mobilise all the resources in order to save the lives of our people, are opportunistically seizing the moment to unjustly enrich themselves.” Thandisizwe Diko a Chief, not a King Makaula say they are disappointed that, due to alleged corruption, their grandfather’s good name has been dragged through the mud. They also say that Thandisizwe is not a King. “We are seriously disturbed by the fact that, in the midst of this alleged plunder and pillage, the good name of our Great Grandfather, Inkosi Madzikane, is dragged in the mud. Thandisizwe Diko is our brother and chief of Elubhacweni; and nothing more.” Makaula says the Amabhaca Kingdom has not had a King since the passing of King Ncapayi. “Any person bearing the name of Mandzikane in a status of a chief is rather mischievous, opportunistic and it is an indictment on the honor of our late Great Grandfather; particularly that his name used for proximity to resources and syphoning of state monies. It must be noted that only seven kingdoms are currently recognised in South Africa. There is no entity called Amabhaca Kingdom that Inkosi Thandisizwe Diko claims to be heading.” Makaula also alleges that the Diko’s company, which was awarded the controversial tender, the Royal Bhaca Projects, has nothing to do with the Amabhaca Traditional Council or Amabhaca people. The family has pledged its support for Gauteng Premier David Makhura and has asked that he leaves no stone unturned in exposing corruption. Statement by King Madzikane’s grandchildren on the alleged corruption against Thandisizwe Diko. 