The African National Congress’  National Working Committee (NWC) says it has given the ANC in KwaZulu-Natal an opportunity to explain its reasons behind the redeployment of Zandile Gumede as a member of the provincial legislature. The former Ethekwini Mayor was sworn in last week, despite her ongoing fraud and corruption case related to a waste removal tender. As SABC’s Samkele Maseko reports the party’s National Working Committee isn’t pleased with her deployment to the legislature:  Spokesperson for the ANC in the province Nhlakanipho Ntombela says the decision was taken to stabilise the municipality. He adds that Gumede’s redeployment is meant to restore the authority of the ANC in Ethekwini  and to ensure that service delivery is effectively dealt with:  The move has been met with large scale criticism on social media. Gumede is out on bail of R50 000 for her alleged role in a Durban Solid Waste tender scandal worth R430 million. “There was no internal process to remove her from the ANC, she became a back-bencher, so she has been there for months now. They needed to move Zandile out of the city into the province and allow for the space to be taken up for them to do their service delivery. We haven’t understood it quite well but what we are asking is that they come and explain themselves to the NEC, so that will happen,” says ANC’s Deputy Secretary-General, Jessie Duarte, was speaking after the party’s NWC  met in Johannesburg. SACP against Gumede’s redeployment The South African Communist Party in KwaZulu-Natal is also against the decision to redeploy her. Secretary-General Themba Mthembu says they want to meet with the ANC in the province regarding the situation. ” If you notice the outcry on the decision of the deployment on Zandile then you can read between the lines what is at stake for us. That is why we are calling for a meeting with the ANC to sit down and see how can we rescue this unfortunate situation.  I think what needs to happen, is for the ANC to respect its own decision. There is a resolution of the ANC of what needs to happen when a member is faced with allegations of corruption Secretary-General Themba Mthembu.   In the video below, Mthembu says the leadership of the ANC needs to respect its own resolutions when dealing with members accused of corruption: 