South Africans are losing trust in politicians due to the abuse of positions and the quest for self-enrichment according to President Cyril Ramaphosa. The President delivered the Eulogy at African National Congress (ANC) Stalwart John Nkadimeng’s funeral where he described as an ethical leader. Ramaphosa says Nkadimeng’s generation of leaders was incorruptible and never sought any personal gratification for working for the people.  A generation that fought for the liberation of South Africa is slowly departing the land of the living. John Nkadimeng was part of the doyens of selfless struggle icons that ushered South Africa into freedom and formed the Trade Union Movement. President Cyril Ramaphosa says the rich political history of John Nkadimengs generation is being destroyed by selfish and corrupt so-called leaders destroying and stealing resources meant for the poor. “So too must we work together to rid our society of the scourge of cronyism and corruption. It is of the gravest of concerns that we are being confronted with those abusing their access to political power and access to government resources,” says Ramaphosa. President Ramaphosa says unlike yesteryear, today South Africans are despondent on the calibre of leaders. The president says leaders like Nkadimeng have become a rare breed in society. “Day by day, we learn more about actions of thieving, of looting, and corruption. Day by day, the trust of our people is being eroded, leading many to conclude that the days of ethical leadership and selfless leadership are behind us, at a time when we are losing a generation that led us from apartheid. Their sacrifices must not be in vain. We must take back from those who seek to destroy our country.” President Cyril Ramaphosa delivers eulogy at Special Official Funeral of Ambassador Nkadimeng:  John Nkadimeng’s comrade in the Trade Union Movement, Thozamile Botha says the late struggle icon hated corrupt leaders. “With the scourge of the COVID-19 our unemployment figures are threatening the 60% mark. The crime figures will start skyrocketing. The poor are the hardest hit by the pandemic whilst thieving continues.” Calvin Nkadimeng says his grandfather was not a dictator but allowed himself to be persuaded. “His style of leadership is one that is a persuasive style rather than an instructional style.” As Nkadimeng leaves the land of the living, his comrades are left with the task of cleansing the ANC of the sins of incumbency such as corruption. Struggle icon laid to rest: 