The African National Congress (ANC) Gauteng Integrity Commission will start its investigation on Monday into allegations against members allegedly involved in impropriety relating to COVID-19 tenders. The ANC in Gauteng has requested its Provincial Executive Committee members, Bandile Masuku and Khusela Diko to step aside pending investigation into allegations of corruption in the awarding of personal protective equipment (PPE) tenders.https://t.co/02JxU3OkR3 — SABC News (@SABCNews) August 1, 2020  Members implicated include presidential spokesperson Khusela Diko, Gauteng Health MEC, Dr. Bandile Masuku, and his wife Loyiso Masuku. They have taken a leave of absence after being linked to a controversial R125 million Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) contract. In the video below, ANC Gauteng removes trio accused in PPE tender from positions pending investigation:  The party in the province has also fired Merafong Municipal Executive Mayor, Maphefo Letsie, and recalled Boysie Maneli from Parliament. Letsie and Maneli have been fired for not taking action against municipal officials who were involved in the VBS bank scandal. In the video below, Gauteng ANC fires Merafong Mayor, recalls Boysie Maneli over VBS scandal:  Gauteng ANC secretary Jacob Khawe says Johannesburg Mayor Geoff Makhubo has been cleared of wrongdoing. “In the event where there’s an unfair due process in that people get jobs because of proximity and not because of following procedures we think that is wrong. Irrespective of who you are and it should not be because you have a family member or you are related to this one and you get preference. And what is good with all process is that there is where it includes the disclosure form and where the company must disclose its relationship with the officials of government.” In the video below, Gauteng ANC clears Joburg Mayor Geoff Makhubo of corruption allegations:  Meanwhile, African Christian Democratic Party (ACDP) leader Kenneth Meshoe says his party is opposed to President Cyril Ramaphosa’s appointment of a Ministerial Committee to investigate allegations of corruption related to the procurement of PPE. The President made the announcement on Wednesday following a Cabinet decision on how the PPE corruption will be probed. Meshoe says the hands of some Ministers are not clean in the alleged corrupt PPE tenders. “How does he think that South Africans can believe that he’s serious about fighting corruption when he knows that these Ministers are part of the problem. There are allegations also against them. So, if the President is serious about fighting corruption he must allow the investigation to be done by institutions and units such as the Hawks and Special Investigative Units because they will come to the root of the problem and they will also have the courage to point fingers at Ministers, Cabinet Ministers who are also involved in corruption.” ACDP leader Kenneth Meshoe says his party is opposed to President’s appointment of Ministerial Committee to investigate allegations of corruption related to procurement of personal protective equipment. He says hands of some Ministers are not clean in alleged corrupt PPE tenders. — SAfm news (@SAfmnews) August 9, 2020 