The daughter of late Eastern Cape paediatric cardiologist Professor Lungile Pepeta has described her father as a trailblazer, saying she hopes he will fulfill that role in heaven as he did on earth. In an emotional tribute, Kungawo says she has lost a father and her best friend, saying she is proud of all that he had managed to achieve. Pepeta’s funeral service and burial took place on Wednesday at Nkantolo village in Mbizana. He died from COVID-19 related complications at a Port Elizabeth hospital on Friday at the age of 46. Kungawo says even though things are tough at the moment, the family will regain strength and rise again. “I hope in heaven you are a trailblazer as you were on this earth. I’m happy because you are now out guardian angel and forever will be until we meet again.” Kungawo-I lost my best friend and the best father in the world. #sabcnews pic.twitter.com/TmOc7Cs3wB — Lerato Fekisi (@LThipa) August 12, 2020  Pepeta was hailed for his contribution to the health fraternity Dignitaries and speakers at Pepeta’s funeral service hailed his dedication to the medical fraternity. Family spokesperson Dr Mthembeni Tebelele says Pepeta served with distinction; and was passionate in his pursuit for decent health services in the rural areas. Dr Tebelele-thanks the Pepeta family for borrowiing him to the world and for allowing him to serve with such distinction. #sabcnews — Lerato Fekisi (@LThipa) August 12, 2020  Dr Tebelele-ends of by saying that the WSU class of 1997 must continue the good fight of good health services for all,something that Pepeta was so passionate about. #sabcnews pic.twitter.com/BEfSriiuEi — Lerato Fekisi (@LThipa) August 12, 2020  Pepeta also had a dream of establishing a medical school at the Nelson Mandela University. Eastern Cape Premier Oscar Mabuyane and other speakers said they would ensure that this dream becomes a reality. Zingela -assures Dr Pepeta’s family that his friends and colleagues that they will ensure that the medical school Pepeta was in the process of realising at Nelson Mandela University becomes a success and reality.#sabcnews — Lerato Fekisi (@LThipa) August 12, 2020  Mabuyane-says that the NMU Medical should be named after Dr Pepeta and his name be in the passages of that school as a reminder of the work that he did to make that Medical school a reality. #sabcnews — Lerato Fekisi (@LThipa) August 12, 2020  The video below is Professor Pepeta’s funeral service: 