Nelson Mandela Bay Metro Acting Mayor Tsonono Buyeye has appointed Anele Qaba as the interim acting municipal manager. The former Acting Municipal Manager, Mvuleni Mapu was arrested in the early hours of Friday morning on corruption charges linked to a housing project. It is alleged that he and a businesswoman, who was arrested with him, colluded in deceiving the provincial Human Settlements Department in the funding of several RDP projects worth nearly R13 million in 2014. They have been released on bail, with strict conditions. In a statement, Buyeye said that he had no knowledge of the allegations against Mapu. He said that an internal investigation will take place in order to find out the truth. Tsonono has appointed Qaba in the interim, until he can personally speak to Mapu. NMB Acting city manager Mvuleni Mapu and Bulelwa Ntonga who was arrested along side Mapu,have been released on R20k bail each. The matter has been postponed for further investigation. #sabcnews — Lerato Fekisi (@LThipa) August 21, 2020  It is alleged that Mapu and Ntanga Mkwakwi had a corrupt relationship during 2014. Mapu allegedly accepted a R900 000 bribe from her in exchange for awarding her business with a R12.8 million tender. #sabcnews — Lerato Fekisi (@LThipa) August 21, 2020  Nelson Mandela Bay Metro acting city manager arrested:  Allegations against Mapu and co-accused It is alleged that Mvuleni Mapu and Bulelwa Ntanga-Mkwakwi, who owns the Jeke and Qadi Trading, had a corrupt relationship since 2014, when Mapu allegedly accepted a R900 000 bribe from her in exchange for awarding her business a housing tender to build RDP structures in Wells Estate. More recently, it is alleged that Mapu interfered with the bidding committee to award the same company another tender worth R12.8 million. National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) regional Spokesperson, Anelisa Ngcakani, explains their bail conditions: “In terms of their bail conditions, they will be under 24-hour house arrest; they are not allowed to appear in any Nelson Mandela municipal buildings for 30 days from today, and must not interfere with witnesses or investigation. They are set to appear in court on the second of November. We as the NPA are determined to see these arrests through until the end.” Political parties in the metro have welcomed the arrests. Democratic Alliance leader in the Eastern Cape, Nqaba Bhanga says they are in full support of this decision. “There are many more to come. There are many cases that we have opened as the DA against officials and politicians relating the maladministration and corruption. Mr Mapu is still and acting MM and we have refused the appointment as he had this dark cloud over him. Today we are vindicated that we are the only party that stands against corruption.” ANC Regional Spokesperson, JP Pretorius, also shares the same sentiments regarding this case. “We have been very clear as the ANC that we have a very clear anti-corruption stance and this is not the type of officials in the municipality that we want to see. We were very clear about the appointment of Mapu from the beginning that we do not feel that he is credible and capable enough to be appointed in such a position.” Two other municipal officials have also been arrested in connection with this case, but their names and reasons for their arrest have not been released. The Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality has noted the latest reports but has chosen not to comment. The municipality says it is currently busy with consultations concerning the matter and will issue a statement once done.