The brother of the man suspected of being a serial killer in uMthwalume, KwaZulu-Natal, says he believes that his deceased brother Mafutha Khomo is behind the killing of one of the two Cele cousins who were their neighbours. Two families have come forward saying their daughters whose mutilated bodies dumped in the uMthwalume area match the recent gruesome discoveries of women’s bodies. This brings to eight the number of women’s bodies found dumped since 2018. The mystery behind the gruesome killing of women in the sugarcane field of uMthwalume continues as suspect’s brother makes shocking revelations:  Community gathers at the sugarcane plantation where women’s bodies were found:  Khomo’s brother, who has been keeping secret for the past few months broke his silence. Khomo committed suicide in custody before he could appear in court. Sandile Khomo, however, chose to tell it all after his brother’s arrest. He approached Cele family, his neighbour and informed them that his brother is behind their daughter Zodwa Cele’s killing. He says he was afraid of his brother. Arrests made in connection with the uMthwalume killings:  Zodwa’s body found in a forest Zodwa’s body was found stuffed in a forest, which neighbours say is the infamous sugarcane plantation. Her uncle Sihle Cele says the family is questioning why Sandile kept quiet for so long. “What’s confusing us that after the arrest of the alleged serial killer, his brother approached us and told us that he suspects that his brother is the one who killed Zodwa. We are asking ourselves why he waited this long before he tells us that he is suspecting his brother. Why did he keep quiet for so long?” In April 2018, dogs were seen playing with a human skull belonging to Zodwa’s cousin, Andile Cele. Her mother, Thandekile Cele, believes this incident is also related to the serial killer. “The killing of my daughter may be related to that of the recent serial killer incidents. All these incidents have a similar pattern. We are still very shocked about the unfolding situation of the killing of women.” Khomo family is yet to make a funeral arrangement because the community doesn’t want him buried in the area. Khomo committed suicide last Monday, just hours before he pointed out to police more bodies that he was arrested for. Subsequently, the case was struck off the roll by uMzumbe Magistrate’s Court for insufficient evidence linking the second suspect. Minister Bheki Cele addresses the uMthwalume community outside the uMzumbabe Magistrate’s Court: 