Gauteng Co-operative Governance MEC Lebogang Maile has been criticised for allegedly insulting a member of the public who claimed to be an ANC member. Maile allegedly used the ‘F’ word against Lucky Skwaya in an sms. The revelation about Maile’s alleged insults were raised by EFF MP Hlengiwe Mkhalipi during a virtual meeting between the Gauteng Provincial Government and the Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs committee late Thursday night. This revelation was made in the same briefing after Mkhalipi wanted to know what action Maile will be taking against Emfuleni Speaker Maipato Tsokolibane. This after Tsokolibane allegedly used insulting comments in a video that has been circulating on social media. The Gauteng Provincial Government appeared before the CoGTA Committee for the second day to respond to how it will mitigate the impact of COVID-19 in the province. One of the questions raised by Mkhalipi related to the alleged insults by Tsokolibane. “This morning (Thursday), there was some rounds that were making on social media about Emfuleni Local Municipality Speaker Mmabatho, I think it’s Tsokolebane who was insulting people of Emfuleni. So, I just want to get a clear understanding from the MEC; what have you done? Because we can’t have public people, public officials or public servants who are holding offices, but it’s easy for them to insult the public when it comes to them, as if they are owning those position personally. If you are holding public office, we must always act as a public official.” Maile assured Mkhalipi that action will be taken without fear or favour against the Emfuleni Speaker once the outcome of an investigation requires action. “The process in most cases is that the Municipality will refer the matter to the integrity committee. They have got different names. The committee will process and then take the issue to council and then council will rather take a decision and recommend a sanction to the MEC of CoGTA. It is at that point that the MEC of CoGTA then takes a decision. We are sitting now with recommendation for an expulsion of a councillor in one of the municipalities.  And we are looking at that and all that. So, rest assured honourable member, once the issue lend on our desk, we will act decisively without any fear or favour.” However, it turned out that Maile has also allegedly insulted someone. Mkhalipi further revealed this and cautioned Maile to act like a leader. Maile accepted Mkhalipi’s advice on how leaders should behave, while he did not really confirm whether he is the one who allegedly sent the derogatory sms to Skwaya. 