Millions of learners in South Africa are returning to school on Monday morning. In Gauteng, many learners could be seen walking to school or boarding transport. Some are accompanied by their parents. Learners from all grades, except those in Grades 5 and 8 are expected back at school this week. Many are wearing colourful masks as a protective measure against contarcting the coronavirus. The little ones are accompanied by their parents. Others can be seen getting into their scholar transport. Those interviewed by the SABC say that whilst they’re scared of contracting the virus from other pulis, they are however looking forward to catching up on school work. One parent says she’s not worried by her child returning to school because she’s taught him to wear a mask regularly, maintain social distance and wash hands. In the video below, state of readiness of schools as most grades return:  Western Cape The Department of Education in the Western Cape says it has made further deliveries of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) in all provincial schools in preparation for more learners returning to school. Grade nines are returning for the first time in five months since lockdown started in March. Provincial Education Minister, Debbie Schäfer says there’s adequate supplies to accommodate the increased numbers arriving… “The Western Cape Education Department has made further deliveries of cleaning material. All schools have sufficient supplies for the additional learners arriving, masks for the learners were delivered some time ago.” Meanwhile, Langa High School outside Cape Town has welcomed about 200 Grade nine learners. Most learners say they are happy to be back because studying at home was not conducive to learning. Others say they cannot afford the data for e-learning. One of the learners, Sihle Yawa says although he is not sure if they will complete the syllabus, he will certainly try his level best to pass this year… “For me, the challenge was not getting much homework. We didn’t do much work at home, so partly I’m happy to be back at school to continue with my school work.” KwaZulu-Natal Some say their children are more careful about observing COVID-19 preventative measures than adults are… “We still go shopping on the weekends. We still go out to the malls. So we can bring home the virus either way. I don’t see there is a risk coming to schools. I feel we are posing a bigger risk by going out to work… I think each parent must educate their child about what happens at home and what happens at school bearing that in mind they will observe protocol and be safe… I don’t think it’s as bad as everyone makes it out to be children studies have proven that kids are non-carriers so I think it’s fine for them .” In Limpopo, some parents and learners have also reported for schooling. Kgabo Segodi, a parent from Greenside extension 78 in Polokwane has accompanied her grade 10 daughter to Kabelo Secondary extension 44. Learners are sanitised and temperature taken at the main entrance and classrooms have been arranged properly to observe social distancing… “I am Kgabo Segodi from extension 78, my daughter Thabiso Segodi is a learner at Kabelo Secondary. I am happy that school has finally reopened, I am just discouraged that they will attend for week and stop again and we don’t how long will this happen. We feel better because when they don’t come to school, they give us problems and stress us at home. We want them to pass and promoted to other grades.” Some learners remained confused saying there were no clear messages from their respective schools as to which grades are expected to report for schooling. This grade eight learners at Kabelo secondary at Greenside outside Polokwane came to school just to inquire if he is supposed to report for schooling or not. He was not wearing a uniform and not yet bathed… “My name is Lesitja Ramashala. I am a grade eight learner at Kabelo secondary. I don’t know when I am supposed to report for schooling. I’m to inquire as to when should we come. If they tell me we are resuming today, I will be happy because it’s long that we have not been schooling.” A grade eleven learner at Flora Park Comprehensive School in Polokwane, Thabiso Dick says he is happy that schools have resumed… “I am in grade 11 and I am ready to go back to school, I feel like it’s not a problem because we have sanitisers and wear masks. We adhere to the rules of COVID-19, I’m studying at Flora Park comprehensive and I’m from Greenside.” In the video below, state of readiness of schools in Limpopo:   Free State In Bloemfontein, parents of learners at Fauna Primary School, have called for the school’s principal to be suspended with immediate effect. The principal is accused of corruption and poor administration. Angry parents who are picketing outside the school also want the current SGB to be dissolved.