KwaZulu-Natal MEC for Community Safety and Liaison, Bheki Ntuli, has outlined a turnaround strategy to combat crime in the province. Speaking at a media briefing at the Inanda Police Station, north of Durban, Ntuli says the department’s primary focus is to reduce crimes such as murder, Gender-Based Violence (GBV) and taxi violence. It has proven difficult to reduce the levels of these crime categories. Masimanyane women’s rights International organisation holds women’s day intervention focusing on Gender-Based Violence:   The annual crime statistics presented by Police Minister Bheki Cele in late July revealed that KZN was the hub of murder, carjacking and sexual offences. Regarding sexual offences and GBV, he says the department will conduct workshops and training as means of beefing-up the stations where a high number of cases are reported. Attention will be given to identified hotspot areas like Inanda, Ntuzuma, Kwamashu, Umlazi and Pinetown. In the video below, Bheki Cele releases the 2019/2020 annual crime statistics:   On the issue of taxi violence, Ntuli says extraordinary measures have been declared in affected areas to stabilise the situation and curb fatalities. These include areas like uMzinyathi, Ndwedwe, and parts of the eThekwini Municipality. He says he intends invoking the provisions of the National Land Transport Act under which certain ranks, routes or operating permits can be suspended for a certain period. Further details will be gazetted on Thursday. Crime in Limpopo Police in Limpopo have expressed concern about the increasing number of children who are involved in criminal activities including murder, theft and drug dealing. Provincial Deputy Police Commissioner, Jan Scheepers, says a number of children have been arrested for crimes such as murder, theft and dealing in drugs amongst others. Scheepers was speaking at the release of the province’s crime statistics at Seshego, outside Polokwane. “If you see the number of children in conflict with the law, they’re between the ages of 10 and 17. Year on year, those children getting involved with illegal activities and crime are increasing and we all know the children aged between 10 and 17 are still supposed to be at school; are still supposed to be under the guardianship of their parents. I think this is an area that we will need to address.”