Messages of condolences are pouring after the death of the Executive Dean for health and sciences at the Nelson Mandela University in the Eastern Cape, Professor Lungile Pepeta. He died of COVID-19 related illness at a Port Elizabeth hospital on Friday. Professor Pepeta played a vital role in the establishment of the university’s medical school which will be opened soon. He is a renowned paediatric cardiologist. Health Minister Dr Zweli Mkhize had appointed him the Chairperson of the Medical Schemes. The university’s Vice-Chancellor, Professor Sibongile Muthwa, says Pepeta’s death is a great loss to the continent. “He had extensive experience in working with key stakeholders in the health and higher education sector, provincially, nationally, continentally and beyond. It is these fine credentials and his unwavering commitment to finding sustainable solutions for the health sector that makes this an immense loss, and his humility and heart for ordinary people that will be sorely missed.” “Mandela University extends its deepest condolences to his wife and family, his students and colleagues, and lowers its banner in honour of this trailblazer and leader par excellence,” Muthwa says. Below are some of the social media reactions about the death of Prof Pepeta: It is with great sadness and an immense sense of loss that we at Nelson Mandela University learned of the passing of our Executive Dean of the Faculty of Health Sciences, Professor Lungile Pepeta. https://t.co/tnEiTxBqo1 pic.twitter.com/b2oiUs5grr — Mandela University (@MandelaUni) August 7, 2020   In 2017 when another calamity hit black specialists with a loss of a prospective black paediatric cardiologist, Prog Mativha memorized him with Nina Simone’s ‘To be young, gifted and black!’. Today we are poorer as we lose to –#Covid19 a shining star Prof Lungile Pepeta!  pic.twitter.com/4dcxD2gmMF — Coceka Mfundisi (@Cmfundisi) August 7, 2020   This is a huge loss not only to NMU, but also to South African Medicine and Higher Education. RIP Prof. Lungile Pepeta. pic.twitter.com/2kHJl2ThQy — Adam Habib (@AdHabb) August 7, 2020 