The African National Congress (ANC) in the Free State has threatened to take stern action against councillors who voted with opposition parties in the Mangaung Metro Municipality in Bloemfontein to oust Executive Mayor Olly Mlamleli last week. ANC provincial spokesperson Thabo Meeko says the party is in the process of visiting all the municipalities including the Mangaung Metro, with the aim of looking into their state of affairs in relation to the recently released Auditor-General’s audit report. Meeko says those found guilty of working with the opposition to remove members that the party has deployed to positions, will be held accountable. He says, “It will mean that where the ANC feels that some of the weaknesses, some of the problems are created by  incompetent people who are not committed to service our people, are committed by the very political battles in these municipalities, we are going to have to make a decision that some of the people would have to be removed from these positions.” Mangaung regional ANC wants Mayor Olly Mlamleli removed:  Political analyst Professor Sethulego Matebesi says the removal of Mlamleli was long overdue. Mlamleli was removed on Friday through a motion of no confidence initiated by the Freedom Front Plus (FF plus), the third motion since she took up office in 2016. The opposition called for a secret ballot in previous failed motions of no confidence, but the request was denied. A list of ANC councillors who allegedly betrayed the party has been leaked to SABC News and they are being investigated. Mangaung’s poor governance under Mlamleli resulted in the city being placed under administration. Matebesi says the removal of Mlameli should come as a relief to the residents of Mangaung who want better service delivery. Residents of Bloemfontein have, however, welcomed the removal of the mayor and have lamented the lack of service delivery. The ANCWL in its statement says it is disappointed by members who work together with opposition parties to vote out those deployed by the ANC.