The African National Congress (ANC) in Greater Johannesburg has cleared Johannesburg Mayor Geoff Makhubo of any wrongdoing after allegations of corruption and financial impropriety. The allegations against Makhubo date back to days before he took over from Herman Mashaba as mayor. The investigation into Makhubo was prompted by the amaBhungane article which accused him of improperly benefitting millions through a company he had shares in. It’s alleged that his company, Molelwane Consulting, received more than R30 million from Regiments Capital, a company implicated in the state capture saga – while he was heading the city’s finance and treasury division. “This demonstrated the ANC’s commitment in decisively taking urgent steps to safeguard the core values of the ANC, protect its image and enhance its standing in society,” says ANC in a statement. The ANC in Johannesburg has commended Makhubo for subjecting himself to a process. It has also appealed to the residents of Johannesburg to accept the decision. “…and stand by its Executive Mayor who is leading a Government of Local Unity which cares about the plight residents of Johannesburg. We call upon the people of Johannesburg to work with the ANC, their organisation as it reclaims its moral standing in society.” The political structure says it will never tolerate any form of corruption or nepotism. “All ANC deployees are mandated to serve all the people with dignity and integrity.”  COVID-19 tenders The ANC Gauteng Integrity Commission will start its investigation on Monday into allegations against members allegedly involved in impropriety relating to COVID-19 tenders. Members implicated include Presidential Spokesperson Khusela Diko, Gauteng Health MEC, Bandile Masuku and his wife Loyiso Masuku. They have taken a leave of absence after being linked to a controversial 125 million rand PPE contract. In the video below, SABC journalist Samkele Maseko explains the alledged fraud allegations:  The party in the province has also fired Merafong Municipal Executive Mayor, Maphefo Letsie and recalled Boysie Maneli from Parliament. Letsie and Maneli have been fired for not taking action against municipal officials who were involved in the VBS Bank scandal