The African National Congress (ANC) Veterans’ League says all senior ANC members implicated in corruption have the ethical duty to step aside from their duties pending the outcome of investigations, in order to protect the integrity of the party. There have been allegations of irregularities in the tender processes involving among others, President Cyril Ramaphosa’s Spokesperson Khusela Diko, Gauteng Health MEC Bandile Masuku and the sons of ANC Secretary-General Ace Magashule. ANC Secretary-General Ace Magashule on PPE procurement and corruption  Justice Minister Ronald Lamola will head a Ministerial Committee that Ramaphosa established to look into allegations of COVID-19 related corruption. Ramaphosa has also signed a proclamation for the Special Investigation Unit (SIU) to investigate allegations related to the misuse of COVID-19 relief funds. League President Snuki Zikalala says the party’s Integrity Committee must ensure that ANC members adhere to its resolutions. “There’s a difference between judicial morality and ethical morality. Ethical morality if there are allegations against an individual or any minister who’s been alleged to be involved in corrupt activities. We as Veteran League and also, of course, the Nasrec resolution state it very clear you don’t have to be charged by a court of law but in the event that whatever you have done impacts on the integrity and dignity of the ANC you must step down, investigated and clear your name. We have to make sure that the integrity committee resolutions are binding,” says Zikalala. The League has described as “unfortunate”  Magashule’s recent claims and has challenged him to provide evidence. This after Magashule said in a media interview that there wasn’t a single party official that had not done business with the government. He also claimed that ANC members were using law enforcement agencies to fight battles within the party. Zikalala adds” “It’s unfortunate what the ANC SG said that there’s not even a single leader of the ANC who has not done business with government. Let him produce those names that’s what he said at our last conference. There were people who were saying that if you talk about moral ethics of the ANC, a number of people who are members of the ANC members of parliament will have to step down he said so what. Let him point out, let him say these are the leaders of government – these are Cabinet ministers who are involved in tenders these are Cabinet ministers whose kids benefitted out of tenders let him state that. We are making sure that we reinforce the integrity commission, any member who’s been alleged to be involved in corrupt activities must step down immediately.” ANC promises to act against corruption  