African National Congress (ANC) NEC member Aaron Motsoaledi has described the late struggle icon, John Nkadimeng, as a person who wanted a better life for all South Africans and not just the connected few. He was delivering the main message at the party during a virtual memorial service for Nkadimeng. Motsoaledi says the recent years of democracy have seen a widening gap between the rich and the poor as a result of poor governance and corruption. “And he would have expected us to fight corruption with the same vigour that he did when fighting for national liberation, which we eventually achieved. Comrades we owe it to this departed revolutionary to spare no energy in uprooting and taking our movement out of thing of corruption.” Deputy Chairperson of the ANC in Gauteng, Panyaza Lesufi, says the country and the party have lost a giant who never backed down in the fight for a democratic country. Lesufi was among the speakers at the virtual memorial service of the late struggle icon, Nkadimeng on Tuesday afternoon. He says the recent turn of events which saw party officials being implicated in wrongdoing – during the COVID-19 pandemic, must be the reason why the party should act against corruption. Lesufi says protecting the integrity of the ANC will mean to expose all those who continue to commit wrongdoings within the party and subsequently in government. “We must protect the ANC, his organisation and to protect the ANC doesn’t mean to protect wrong doers – this does not mean the ANC must not act decisively against those who continue to embarrass us, to protect the ANC doesn’t mean we must not differ – on the current state of our organisation. To protect the ANC means to protect our country, to protect our communities and our people.” Also speaking at the memorial service, ANC Chairperson in Limpopo, Stan Mathabatha, warned against factionalism within the party in honour of the late struggle icon. Mathabatha says the danger of factionalism in the movement is that it leads to the rise in corruption by party members who are in government. Nkadimeng died last week at the age of 93. In the video below, tripartite alliance visits the home of John Nkadimeng: 