The African National Congress (ANC) in North West has suspended the membership of its 15 councillors at the Ramotshere Moiloa Local Municipality in Zeerust. The party accuses them of defying the caucus’ instructions by removing their Mayor and the Speaker and electing their preferred candidates. The embattled Ramotshere Moiloa Municipality has been in the news for a while. The municipal council recently elected a new Speaker, Municipal Mayor and mayoral committee. This action has been viewed by the ANC as ill-discipline. The party has taken action against all the implicated councillors. Spokesperson for the ANC Interim Provincial Committee Kenny Morolong says, “The interim provincial working committee of the ANC in the North West province has resolved, in accordance with rule 25.6 of the ANC’s constitution, to place on temporary suspension 15 of its councillors deployed at the Ramotshere Moiloa local municipality.” “This temporary suspension shall remain in force until the finalisation of the disciplinary proceedings,” added Morolong. Those implicated say that they did not and would not defy the ANC. Their spokesperson Alfred Nyamane says, “We will forever be humble to the ANC, we will forever listen to the ANC, You know that all the political mandates come from the ANC. But in this, the ANC cannot say we are defying the caucus, the caucus of Ramotshere Moiloa is united…” “The caucus of Ramotshere is busy trying to deliver services to the people,” added Nyamane. Nyamane also confirmed that he is still a legitimate councillor, after the party wrote to the Independent Electoral Committee (IEC) in the province, informing it about his removal from the party list. He says, “My lawyer is dealing with it, my lawyer is an ANC member, so we hope that my lawyer will deal with everything, but as we speak right now I can confirm to you that two days ago I had a council sitting as the speaker of Ramotshere Moiloa Local Municipality. The IEC can attest to you that I am still the PR, I am still the councillor of Ramotshere Moiloa Local Municipality. I am still the speaker of the Ramotshere Moiloa Municipality. In the video below, two North West ANC councillors’ membership were reinstated  In May, two ANC councillors from Ramotshere Moiloa Local Municipality, who had been suspended were reinstated to their seats. They said the felt vindicated after their membership was reinstated, they had been suspended by the provincial leadership and accused of contravening the lockdown regulations. Eskom cuts electricity to Ramotshere Moiloa Local Municipality Meanwhile, the North West provincial government has promised to intervene on the ongoing electricity cut challenges in Ramotshere Moiloa Local Municipality. Eskom recently cut off electricity supply to the municipality, after it failed to settle its over R50 million debt. The municipality stated that the inability to pay Eskom was as a result of its equitable share being withheld by the Provincial Treasury. Community members say this has affected their lives negatively. Acting MEC for Local Government Boitumelo Moiloa says, “We have agreed as a government and as the department that we are going to negotiate with Eskom and see how we resolve the matter. We are committing that we will put in stability in the municipality. After putting someone who will sterilize the municipality, Eskom will be paid. Eskom cuts off power in the Ramotshere Moiloa Local Municipality 