West African countries will send a delegation to Mali in an effort to reverse a military coup, presidents from the region said, as an opposition coalition there joined the junta in rejecting foreign interference. Leaders of the 15-nation Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) convened over the crisis on Thursday, after it suspended Mali, shut off borders and halted financial flows in response to Tuesday’s overthrow of President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita. The coup, which has rocked a country already in the grip of a growing insurgency by Islamist militants and civil unrest, has been met with almost universal condemnation abroad. At the end of the meeting, Niger President Mahamadou Issoufou, the acting ECOWAS president, issued a statement saying the heads of state demanded that Keita be returned to power and would “immediately” dispatch a delegation to Mali that would include former Nigerian President Goodluck Jonathan. The statement also called for the ramping-up of ECOWAS’s standby military force, but it was not clear whether any military action was being contemplated. Diplomatic sources had said earlier that the delegation would be led by four heads of state. In Mali, the M5-RFP coalition of opposition groups that spearheaded protests against Keita before the coup and has since embraced the mutineers rejected ECOWAS’s position. “If they want to come, they can come but we are not going to move,” Cheick Oumar Sissoko, a coalition leader, told reporters.”We are going to cross ECOWAS’s red line.” Opposition leaders said they would hold a rally in Bamako on Friday to celebrate what they described as their “victory”. Bamako residents expressed widespread support for the coup. The capital was calm for the second straight day, as people appeared to heed earlier calls from junta spokesperson Colonel Ismael Wague to return to work and go about their daily lives. Banks re-opened after closing the past two days and clients said they had no problems withdrawing money. “The ECOWAS sanctions are legitimate but reckless,” said Brema Soumare, a 35-year-old architect, standing outside a bank.”This coup is a liberation… Organisations like ECOWAS should support the people and not heads of state.” Regional bodies condemn Mali coup: 