Some political parties in Parliament say South Africa’s Constitution does not allow for the dissolution of Cabinet, as called for by United Democratic Movement’s (UDM) leader, Bantu Holomisa. In a statement, Holomisa has called for the dissolution of government to be replaced by a caretaker administration until the 2024 national and provincial elections. This is as allegations of looting by several state officials continue to surface amid the coronavirus pandemic. Holomisa believes that this will help root out rampant corruption and hold those responsible accountable. “We would be fooling ourselves if we expect the ANC to clean itself. Ramaphosa might be serious to say he wants to end corruption, but so far, the indications on the ground are that his own people are not listening to him. They are continuing to loot. At local government, it has worked where you appoint an administrator. It is going to be the same arrangement at the national level, where the Members of Parliament will continue doing their oversight work and approving legislation and find out exactly what is happening in institutions.” ‘Not practical’ Some Members of Parliament say this is not an option under the country’s constitutional democracy. However, other parties have shot Holomisa’s proposal down. “It is not practical to do so. It is in the hands of electorate to get rid of ANC government in 2024 and that is how to ensure you get a new competent government,” says  Inkatha Freedom Party Chief Whip, Narend Singh. Freedom Front Plus (FF Plus) leader, Pieter Groenewald and says those implicated in corruption must be charged and if found to be guilty, go to jail. African Christian Democratic Party (ACDP) leader, Kenneth Meshoe, and Congress of the People Spokesperson, Dennis Bloem, say they would support any means to remove the African National Congress (ANC) from power provided that it is in line with the constitution. The ACDP says they are sick of corruption and looting. “ANC should be voted out because the constitution doesn’t allow anything else. But I can understand Holomisa’s suggestion,” says Meshoe. COPE says it would support the removal of President Cyril Ramaphosa and the cabinet since the country is in crisis economically.