The South African Police Service says it is concerned about videos going viral of officers allegedly using excessive force on people who contravening the lockdown regulations. National Police Spokesperson Vish Naidoo says although they still need to verify the aunthenticity of these videos, the alleged behavior is unacceptable and cannot be tolerated or condoned. “We have impressed upon our members on the ground to act within the confines of the law; in enforcing the disaster management regulations. The regulations clearly outlines the actions that security forces may enforce or impose on the alleged transgressors. And the depiction in the circulation of the videos is definitely not one of the actions as outlined in the disaster management regulations,” says Naidoo. Meanwhile, Ekurhuleni Mayor Mzwandile Masina has called for calm in Vosloorus, on the West Rand following the fatal shooting of a resident as his home on Monday. It is alleged that a scuffle ensued after EMPD officers tried to arrest people who were drinking liquor at a local tavern, flouting the lockdown regulations. An Ekurhuleni Metro Police officer and a 45-year-old civilian have been arrested in connection with the shooting. Mayoral Spokesperson Phakamile Mbengashe, says, “The Executive Mayor of the City of Ekurhuleni, Cllr Mzwandile Masina has today, called for calm in the City following the fatal shooting of a civilian in Vosloorus on Sunday, 29 March 2020. The South African Police Service and the Independent Police Investigative Directorate are currently investigating the matter.” President Cyril Ramaphosa has cautioned security forces to ensure the safety of South Africans and not cause harm to them. There have been reports of alleged brutality by some SANDF members who have been deployed to support police to manage the nationwide lockdown. “We have made it clear that the task of our security personnel is to support, to reassure and to comfort our people and to ensure that peace and order is maintained in our country. They know that they must act within the law at all times and that they must not cause harm to any of our people in any way whatsoever, all of us, South Africans, the 50 million of us.” In the video below, Ramaphosa addresses the nation:  