President Cyril Ramphosa says it is still too soon to issue a travel ban regarding the deadly coronavirus outbreak that is engulfing the globe with no sign of abating. President Ramaphosa has also urged  South Africans to be on high alert and take the necessary precautions to contain the outbreak. “It is still too early we’ve just got two so let us keep watching how this thing carries on. The government will keep our people informed at all times. We did say that we will be transparent, we will let people know, the important thing here is to avoid fake news spreading of false information,” says Ramaphosa. The President’s remarks come amid growing travel restrictions and closure of borders around the world as efforts to contain the outbreak continues. He was speaking at the African National Congress Women’s League’s (ANCWL) Inaugural Presidential Golf Day and Gala Dinner on Saturday night, shortly after the second case was confirmed in South Africa. The man and woman were part of a group that returned from Italy recently. Italy is the worst-hit country in Europe. In the video below, the second case of coronavirus is confirmed in South Africa:  All other members of the travel group have self-quarantined in their homes as authorities await their test results. Anyone with questions or concerns about their symptoms is urged to call the 24-hour hotline on 0800 029 999. Coronavirus hotline:  President Ramaphosa has promised to keep the communication channels open. “All of us as South Africans must now be on high alert on things such as continuously washing our hands cause they say that it is spread in that way so washing our hands and if you cough, you should cough with a handkerchief or a tissue and dispose of it immediately so if we can contain the disease in that way I think we will go a long way.” In the video below, President Ramaphosa addresses the media at the ANCWL gala dinner:  Meanwhile, the Democratic Nursing Organisation of South Africa (DENOSA) has expressed confidence in the ability of the staff at the Charlotte Maxeke Hospital in Johannesburg, to deal with the quarantine and care of the country’s second coronavirus patient. The hospital is one of three designated health facilities to treat patients with the COVID-19 infection. DENOSA Gauteng Chairperson Simphiwe Gada says all protocols will be followed. “I can say that the patient that has been taken to Charlotte Maxeke will be isolated. All the protocols as prescribed also by the World Health Organisation and the Department of Health must be followed and will be followed.”