Johannesburg City Parks and Zoo says although funerals will be allowed to be held during the 21-day lockdown period, there will be strict regulations in place for them. The entity says the Johannesburg Metro Police Department (JMPD) will be on site during this time to assist in managing the capacity. On Monday, President Cyril Ramaphosa declared a national lockdown with the assistance of the South African National Defence force (SANDF), to slow the spread of the coronavirus. Johannesburg City Parks and Zoo spokesperson Jenny Moodley says funerals must be contained to the attendance of immediate family only. “We want to reassure our residents that burials will continue. We are, however, urging residents to comply with the 100 person maximum threshold to gather. We’re appealing to families to conduct all the rituals, where possible, at home and limit the number of people that work their way to the cemetery itself. The City is saying to residents that even though the threshold is 100 people per gathering, we are appealing to you to keep the numbers even limited to immediate family,” explains Moodley. Government to assist spaza shops amid COVID-19 pandemic Small Business Development Minister, Khumbudzo Ntshavheni, says spaza shops will be provided with assistance by government amid the COVID-19 pandemic. Spaza shops are exempt from the lockdown – along with grocery stores and pharmacies, which provide essential supplies to people. People will be allowed to go out and buy food and medicine. The number of confirmed COVID-19 infections in South Africa has so far risen to 554, with two patients currently in ICU at private hospitals. In the video below, Minister Khumbudzo Ntshavheni says all small businesses will be supported throughout the lockdown:  The graphic below indicates more details about the lockdown:  21-DAY LOCKDOWN sabcnews.com |  SABC News channel | SABC Radio news President Cyril Ramaphosa has declared a 21-day Nationwide lockdown effective from  midnight Thursday 26 March ﻿until 16th April What does it mean, what is imposed? All citizens to stay home, with exception of essential services personnel  Movement of citizens to be strictly controlled  Army to join police in enforcement efforts  Companies who continue to operate, to do so remotely  Temporary shelters to be built for the homeless (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));