The Botswana government has put under mandatory quarantine citizens who have recently returned to the country after travelling to South Africa. In a statement, Botswana’s Health and Wellness Ministry says, the measure it has taken is because South Africa is affected by the coronavirus (COVID-19). It says it hopes this will prevent the transmission of the fast spreading virus across the country’s borders and says only its nationals will be allowed to back into Botswana during this period. South Africa’s COVID-19 cases now stand at 709, while Botswana has not recorded any case of the pandemic. COVID-19 across Africa There are over 1500 confirmed cases of coronavirus across the African continent with South Africa reporting the highest infections with Algeria second with 231 and Burkina Faso with 92 cases. A number of African countries have put measures in place to try curb or prevent further spread of the COVID-19 pandemic and of the 54 African countries 37 have confirmed cases of the coronavirus. Kenya confirms eight more coronavirus cases Kenya has confirmed eight more coronavirus cases in the country, bringing the total to 15. Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe says the patients are five Kenyans, two French nationals and a Mexican. Kagwe says the patients have been isolated as well as 363 other people who are suspected of having the virus. Kenya also announced that all international flights in and out of the country will be suspended from Wednesday. In this video, Kenya confirmed three more positive cases of COVID -19:  Zimbabwe confirms third coronavirus case On Tuesday one of the confirmed cases succumbed to the new virus. Zororo Makamba (30) was buried in Harare on Tuesday. Zimbabwe’s latest case is a man who is believed to have been in contact with Zororo Makamba.  According to the Health Ministry says Makamba was buried in accordance with public health guidelines. But his death sparked fury across the Southern African country. Makamba’s family wrote an open letter accusing the Health Department of being inadequate and failing to treat their loved one accordingly. The radio anchor contracted COVID-19 while in New York to receive treatment for a lung operation. Meanwhile, government has confirmed the consignment of 20 000 testing kits and other medical products from the Jack Ma Foundation to assist in responding to the outbreak. Eswatini reports first coronavirus case: Health Ministry Eswatini, a small landlocked Southern African country, reported its first confirmed case of coronavirus (COVID-19)  on Saturday. Meanwhile, COVID-19 has now spread to at least 19 countries across Africa – with recent cases confirmed in Eswatini, Kenya, Ethiopia, Sudan, Mauritania and Guinea. In the video below, the Tanzanian government says it will crackdown on fake news peddlers:  Below is a Live Tracking of the cases, death toll and other information, updated daily: 