The Buya-Mjindi campaign has distanced itself from criminal activities taking place in Barberton, Mpumalanga. This after local offices of the African National Congress (ANC) and an old clinic building were torched over the weekend. Buya-Mjindi is a campaign by the community demanding the reversal of a merger between Mbombela and Umjindi Local Municipality. The residents claim that since Umjindi was merged with Mbombela in 2015, service delivery has suffered in Barberton. Residents chanted outside the Barberton Magistrate’s Court demanding the release of arrested community members. Buya-Mjindi Chairperson Shugululu Mkhonto was arrested over the weekend while former ward councilor Mandla Mamba was arrested on Friday. The angry community chanted struggle songs and carried placards demanding their release. The community has been protesting for four weeks now. Last week, two trucks and a vehicle were looted and burnt. Spokesperson of Buya-Mjindi campaign Mfumfa Lukhele claims they are not involved in any criminal activities. “We detach. We delink ourselves with all the elements of criminal activities that have happened. We have never burnt any trucks. We have never burnt any buildings. On Sunday, after the arrest of our chairperson Shugululu Mnangagwa, we all dispersed to places where we stay, but we learnt at night that the ANC offices are up in smoke and saw flames at the old clinic in Spearville, our plight is one we want Umjindi to be released from Mbombela,” says Lukhele. Businesses, motorists, as well as teaching and learning, has been affected in the area. Kao Geber runs a shop in the area. He says his shop was broken into and looted. “I stay in Spearville. They broke into the shop. No one has gone to that location. Everyone has closed their shops. Every time they break into my shop I can’t go to that side. A lot of things were damaged,” says Geber. Faith-based organizations have also intervened. They have called on the authorities to engage with the community. Pastor Bongani Sibiya, “I think when things are done in a proper way, like clear consultation, the leaders address the community; the leaders address them in a proper way, I don’t think will have the same problem. All these problems of criminality will be eliminated easily because there is a lot of provocation now, the community, police, leaders. There is no clear coordination on this whole thing,” says Sibiya. Meanwhile, police spokesperson Leonard Hlathi says about 32 cases, which include arson and public violence, are being investigated. According to Hlathi, the number of arrested people now stands at 37. “The former ward Councillor Mandla was remanded in custody until the 6th of March for a formal bail application, while Shugululu Mkhonto will appear in court on Tuesday,” says Hlathi.