South Africans will find out on Monday whether government will institute further measures to curb the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. This comes after the National Command Council on the disease met at the Union Buildings in Pretoria on Sunday. The official number of infections nationally is 274.  President Cyril Ramaphosa is expected to also announce interventions to mitigate the economic impact of the disease. The President’s address was postponed Sunday night because his meeting with the National Command Council lasted longer than anticipated. Minister in the Presidency, Jackson Mthembu says among the issues discussed, was the measures implemented to mitigate the spread of the virus were sufficient. In the video, Minister Jackson Mthembu addresses the media outside the Union Buildings in Pretoria:  South African coronavirus cases rise to 274 The number of confirmed coronavirus cases has risen to 274. This after 34 new cases were confirmed on Sunday evening. In this video, SABC News confirms 34 new cases of coronavirus case in SA:  Everybody is at risk Health Minister Zweli Mkhize says everybody is at risk of contracting the coronavirus. “In any community, 60 t0 70% of the community will be affected by the virus. We can’t hide that. So, I say to the religious leaders, most of us, we are going to have this virus. South Africa, most of us will have this virus. It doesn’t mean that then it’s going to be a severe disease to all of us. It will be severe to 20%. Let’s make sure that at each and every time the 20% is small, so that we don’t have the strain of having to worry about opening new ventilators and all of those things.” In the video below, political parties and business communities pledge support to government:  Earlier in the week, there were reports that the President would announce a State of Emergency and complete lockdown which would ban inter-provincial travelling. However, President Ramaphosa’s Spokesperson Khusela Diko says there is no truth in rumours going around that government will announce a total lockdown due to the coronavirus outbreak.