The Democratic Alliance (DA) leadership in Gauteng says it will do all it can to overturn the decision by provincial government to dissolve and place the Tshwane Metro Council under an administration. Premier David Makhura and his executive dissolved the council last week citing lack of commitment to render services to its citizens. The DA’s provincial caucus committee met in Tshwane and filed an urgent application in the High Court in Pretoria to interdict Makhura’s decision. DA’s Gauteng Chairperson Mike Moriarty says they hope the court will consider their application as urgent. “We have filed papers and we are seeking an urgent review. We expect to be in an actual court hearing on Tuesday. This has just purely been a power grab. We filed papers and we are confident that our case is strong both in law and the fact,” says Moriarty. Earlier in the week, Makhura speaking during his site visit to the newly-built Mandisa Shiceka Clinic in Hammanskraal, north of Pretoria, said, “What is a fact is that this city has ground to a halt and it is not allowed in law to just sit back and watch. So, the people of Hammanskraal must know that at least this is one thing that we want sorted out. First, the priority of the administrator is to connect this clinic to water, electricity, sewerage and storm-water. The officials of the city must also do their work because they take advantage of the chaos in the council.” In the video below, Makhura says the majority of Tshwane residents welcomed news of the metro being placed under administration:  EFF hopes for proper government in Tshwane The EFF has accepted the decision by the Gauteng government to place Tshwane under administration. A number of administrative and service delivery challenges were also sighted including unauthorized and irregular expenditure, as well as the current financial crisis. EFF leader Julius Malema says he hopes there will be a proper government in Tshwane after the by-elections. “Sometimes we find ourselves in this situation which is not of our own making. It has been made by the electorate itself. We hope that when we come back from elections, there will be a proper government that will receive a proper mandate from the people of Tshwane.” In the video below, SABC Reporter, Natasha Phiri speaks to ANC Tshwane Caucus Spokesperson, Lesego Makhubela:  Meanwhile, the DA in the Western Cape says it will move forward to select a new Mayor for George in the Southern Cape. The High Court has dismissed former Knysna Mayor Mark Willemse’s application for readmission to the DA. George Mayor Melvin Naik was removed from the DA following corruption allegations within the local municipality. DA George constituency head, Geordin Hill-Lewis says Naik is challenging his termination on the same basis. 