The Premier of KwaZulu-Natal Sihle Zikalala says steps will be taken to return the situation in Ladysmith to normal in two weeks. This is after a meeting with business and other people who have been affected by violent protests. The protestors are demanding the resignation of the mayor – Vincent Madlala. Zikalala says all the issues raised by the protestors – like allegations of corruption and nepotism – will be thoroughly investigated. Protestors blockaded main roads to the town. Five trucks have also been set alight. It was allegedly done by angry community members. One of the truck drivers, Joe Chiwai , says he nearly lost his life. “I was driving from Durban to Polokwane and I was blocked here. I ran away when the mob came to me. The load was worth more than R350 000 which is very bad.” In the video below, Vusi Khumalo says that Ladysmith  residents are calling for service delivery in the area:  ‘Standstill’ The protests brought the town nearly to a standstill. People had to organise transport because taxis were not running. Mamo Nyawose says she has to walk more than 10 kilometers to see a relative who is seriously ill. “I am worried because I am going to see my relative in hospital and I am tired but what can I do because there is no transport and I have to walk.” Zikalala says steps will be taken to return the situation to normal soon. “We have met with all relevant stakeholders but we had a problem, some members who claim to represent the community are members of the IFP. So, we will allow another party to dictate what we must do as the ANC, that matter needs to be discussed at political levels.” Zikalala says all the issues raised by the community will be investigated. “We will investigate all cases of corruption and nepotism. We will make sure that law enforcement agencies are dealing with those who destroy property. We will leave no stone unturned.” Meanwhile, the Chairperson of Ubumbano Lolukhanya Andile Hlatshwayo says protests will continue until Zikalala meets with the protestors. “We are disappointed with the negotiations but we will not rest until the mayor of the municipality resigns. They are not prepared to listen to us and we will not retreat until our demands are met.”