Parliament’s Health Committee has extended its condolences to the families of the two Western Cape women who are the first people to die from the coronavirus (COVID-19) in South Africa. South Africa now has over 1 000 infections. The deceased women are aged 28 and 48. The 48-year-old woman’s condition worsened while in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) while the 28-year-old was admitted to hospital on Thursday. Both women passed away as the lockdown kicked in. In the video below, Health Minister Zweli Mkhize confirms South Africa’s first deaths as two women die from COVID-19.  Mthembu has also conveyed a message of condolence to the families of the two Western Cape women who died from coronavirus. “We want to convey our sincerest to the patients who lost their lives today in the Western Cape. We want to convey to their families, their loved ones and their associates our sincerest condolences. This shows that this COVID-19 kills. We, therefore, appeal to all our people to stay at home as a means of protecting ad defending ourselves against this corona virus.” The Western Cape has recorded the second highest number of people infected with the coronavirus after Gauteng. Health Committee Chairperson Sibongiseni Dhlomo has conveyed his condolences to the families. “Our sincere condolences to the two families of the bereaved young South Africans. Our wish is that God can console them and actually help them. And to the whole of the Western Cape community and the citizens of that province, our condolences.”  NUMBER OF CASES PASS 1000 In a statement, the Minister of Health, Dr Zweli Mkhize, confirmed on Friday morning that two women had died in the Western Cape from COVID-19. One of the women was in a private hospital while the other was in a public hospital. Dr Mkhize also said that the number of people who tested positive for COVID-19 has passed 1 000.  “We will give more details later on, when we announce the latest confirmed COVID-19 cases, which have increased from yesterday’s number and have tipped the 1 000 mark,” Mkhize said in a statement on Friday morning.  POLITICAL PARTIES WORRIED ABOUT SPREAD OF COVID-19 The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) and the Democratic Alliance (DA) say the deaths of two WOMEN are an indication of the seriousness of the COVID-19 outbreak. The parties have also expressed sadness at the fatalities and expressed their condolences to the families of the deceased. DA interim leader John Steenhuisen said on Friday that it was important that people abide by the regulations put in place for the 21-day lockdown. “If ever there was a reason to reinforce how important it is that over the next 21 days that people abide by the regulations and stay indoors so we can flatten the curve and stop the spread, then this must be it. This must serve to focus our minds of just how serious this COVID-19 outbreak is and just what a threat it presents to our nation, our economy and our country.” The EFF in a statement has urged employers to allow employees to stay home in order to curb the spread of the virus. “We call on all employers that insist on remaining fully operational to desist and shutdown their companies. These unfortunate deaths should be a wake-up call to all of us regarding the gravity of the COVID-19 pandemic; as such we should all be part of preventing its spread.”