The National Assembly will on Thursday hold a debate on the outbreak of the coronavirus that has infected around 90 933 people and has caused 3120 deaths throughout the world. Last week President Cyril Ramaphosa ordered the repatriation of 151 South Africans stuck in the Chinese city of Wuhan which is the epicentre of the outbreak. In the video below, South African citizens living in Wuhan, China have asked to be repatriated  The World Health Organisation (WHO) says South Africa is well-resourced to cope with any outbreak of coronavirus. The organisation says that it is working with South African authorities regarding the activation of necessary resources if required. WHO has also deployed personnel to African countries to deal with the possible coronavirus outbreak. South Africa has been classed as a priority-one country because of the large number of travellers to and from the country, among other reasons. Technical Officer at the WHO Regional Office for Africa, Dr. Mary Stephens, says they will continue to assist South Africa and other countries. “The major areas we saw challenges with regards to preparedness were the areas of infection prevention and control and also case management. What we are doing is to provide targeted support to these countries in addressing those areas with greatest need. We have deployed experts to most of the priority one countries including South Africa and a lot of the priority two countries to help them address those gaps in those critical areas where we think they need urgent support.”  The coronavirus debate is one of several activities taking place in Parliament this week… David Mabuza to answer questions in the National Council of Provinces On Tuesday afternoon, Deputy President David Mabuza will answer questions in the National Council of Provinces. Among the questions, he will face is one by the Freedom Front Plus (FF Plus) on the incitement of land grabs that the party says are taking place to the detriment of social cohesion and rural economic development. The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) has also asked Mabuza whether he has discussed measures to save State-Owned Enterprises with the Minister of Public Enterprises, Pravin Gordhan. The party, which has regularly called for Gordhan to be fired, wants Mabuza to say whether he is satisfied with any plans they have discussed. The African National Congress (ANC) for its part, wants Mabuza to speak about his conflict resolution efforts in South Sudan. Mabuza has received the Impact Leadership Award for 2019. He was honoured at a glittering event of the 8th African Leadership Magazine Persons of the Year Awards in Sandton north of Johannesburg on Saturday night.  