The spokesperson for AbaThembu King Buyelekhaya Dalindyebo says the King did not physically attack anyone during the incident that occurred at the Bumbane Great Place in the Eastern Cape on Friday morning. The King, who is out on parole, was arrested on charges of assault and malicious damage to property and later released on a warning. He allegedly attacked his son, Prince Azenathi Dalindyebo and his wife. Prince Azenathi allegedly sustained injuries and his wife has been hospitalised. King Dalindyebo’s spokesperson, Prince Mthunzi Ngonyama says Prince Azenathi refused the King’s earlier requests for him and his wife to vacate the premises. “He got in and then they heard the noise and they asked who is this? And he responded and they ran away through the windows and all that. I’m told that through the process some got hurt as they were trying to run away which is unfortunate as it was not intended. “He did not physically go and assault someone they heard of course that he was breaking into the door and that’s when they ran but of course all that might be explained at a later stage during the court process” Ngonyama explains. In the video below, a family member describes what happened during the attack: Meanwhile, Correctional Services says it is conducting an investigation to determine whether the parole of AbaThembu King Buyelekhaya Dalindyebo continues or not. Spokesperson Singabakho Nxumalo says the investigation is under way. “He subsequently appeared in court where he was released on warning. What’s important at this stage is to get all the facts so we could put together a profile that must go before the parole board. To make a determination whether there were any forms of deviation from the parole conditions that will determine whether or not the parolee, in this case, Dalindyebo will continue to be out in the community or will have to serve the remainder of his parole back in our care.” Kgoshi Mathupa Mokoena says Dalindyebo’s recent incident is unfortunate: Infographic: Crimes King Dalindyebo committed