The African National Congress (ANC) in Tshwane has welcomed the decision by the Gauteng Provincial Government to dissolve the Tshwane Council. The metro has been placed under administration until a new council is elected in 90 days. Premier David Makhura told reporters in Johannesburg that the DA-led metro failed in its constitutional mandate to provide services to the citizens of Tshwane. Premier David Makhura announcing the dissolution of Tshwane Council and placing the City under administration.  Several attempts to elect and appoint the new mayor were unsuccessful. The DA’s second executive mayor since the 2016 local government elections, Stevens Mokgalapa, resigned recently. He was accused of misconduct. ANC Tshwane chairperson, Kgosi Maepa, says they’re relieved the DA-led council is now history. “Tshwane ANC accepts the decision of the premier and MEC to dissolve the council and appoint an administrator. We fully note the decision of the provincial executive as per the constitutional requirement to dissolve the council and appoint an administrator in 90 days. The implication of section 1391 C, is that political parties go to election within 90 days.” In the video below, ANC Tshwane Chairperson Kgosi Maepa focussing on stability and service delivery  Maepa says the ANC in the region will now focus on campaigns for the by-elections to beat the 90-day deadline of electing a new council leadership. He says whoever takes over to lead and serve in the new City of Tshwane council must focus on bringing stability and accelerating service delivery. Ours is to reverse the damage and horror brought by the DA in the metro. Our people in the townships live in very terrible conditions.” EFF hopes for proper government in Tshwane The EFF has accepted the decision by the Gauteng government to place Tshwane under administration. A number of administrative and service delivery challenges were also sighted including unauthorised and irregular expenditure, as well as the current financial crisis. EFF leader Julius Malema says that he hopes there will be a proper government in Tshwane after the by-elections. “Sometimes we find ourselves in this situation which is not of our own making; it has been made by the electorate itself. We hope that when we come back from elections, there will be a proper government that will receive a proper mandate from the people of Tshwane.”   ‘Half-truth and manipulation’ The Democratic Alliance’s provincial chairperson, Mike Moriarty believes there was no need to dissolve the council. “We don’t need to dissolve council. This is extraordinary and so on. They never considered doing in areas like Merafong and Emfuleni where there is credibly, bad things taking place. But yet it comes in a DA-led council. You gonna ask yourself is this not a political power grab. Is this not the ANC that lost in an election and suddenly deciding that this is the way that they gonna do it. This is half-truth and manipulation.” The DA is in the meantime seeking legal advice on whether it should take the Gauteng government’s decision on legal review. Mixed feelings The people of Tshwane have reacted with mixed feelings. One resident says that the Council only collects money, but does not do its work. “Does it make any difference if we have a Council? There’s no problem because they just keep taking money, isn’t it better without them? They are sitting there; 20, 30, 40 people just sitting there collecting money. Everybody is just collecting, but nobody is doing anything. Look at the state of the streets.” Another resident says Tshwane residents are not satisfied with the services. “If you look at how Tshwane is being run, services; I just experienced people carrying water with buckets. I wonder if that has to do with poor service from the Council and that we don’t have a Mayor. We are not satisfied here in Tshwane. Tshwane residents react to the municipality being placed under administration    – Additional reporting by Risha Maduray and Phanuel Shuma