Eskom says there’s an increased possibility of rotational load shedding on Monday. It says some generation units tripped unexpectedly overnight, reducing the available capacity. The power utility’s spokesperson Sikhonathi Mantshantsha says they are using more emergency generation reserves than was initially planned to supplement supply. “Today and tomorrow we do have some generation units returning to service which would help reduce the risk of load shedding but as things stand the risk has increased and we may at short notice have to implement load shedding,” says   Mantshantsha.   Mantshantsha says the system remains constrained and load shedding could return at short notice. “We have quite a few generation units returning back to service which will lower the prognosis for load shedding.  However, we do urge the people of South Africa to continue to use electricity sparingly to help us curb demand,” says Mantshantsha.  In video below Eskom CEO Andre de Ruyter talks about the increased probabilty of long term load shedding:  Meanwhile, Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader Julius Malema says it’s high time that Eskom takes South Africans seriously and provides them with electricity. Malema led a large crowd of EFF supporters on a march through Sandton to hand over a memorandum of grievances to Eskom CEO Andre De Ryter at the headquarters in SunningHill, north of Johannesburg. The crowd gathered at the power utility’s headquarters, after a 4-hour walk from Sandton. In the video below, the EFF leader talks about their march in Sandton:  Malema appealed to all those who have the means to pay their electricity bills, or else face prosecution. “For us to pay these workers of Eskom, we need money. Those who can afford to pay, pay your money and pay for the poor as well. We call on Eskom CEO … there should not be anyone here in Sandton who owes electricity, if they say they aren’t employed, then they are crooks. He must pay. If they can’t pay, you must introduce a process and take them to relevant authorities.” Below is a video by Eskom explaining load shedding:  