Four  buses carrying the group of 114 repatriates from Wuhan, in China, have left the Gateway International Airport in Polokwane. The military plane transporting South African citizens from China landed in Polokwane on Saturday morning.  The R101 road between Polokwane and Mokopane in Limpopo has been closed for security reasons. The stretch of the road includes the Ranch Hotel and Resort which is the quarantine location for the group. Chriselda Lewis reports…  In a tweet message on Saturday, Health Minister Dr Zweli Mkhize has welcomed the group back home, saying “Our children are home.”  Mkhize says the hotel has all relevant facilities and situated away from densely populated areas. The Ranch Hotel is located between the towns of Mokopane and Polokwane. It is surrounded by lush green trees and dense bush. There are wild animals that include the antelope family group, grass eaters like zebra and giraffe, as well as lions. There are two entry points along the N1 and the R101 roads. Polokwane residents have different views. “I feel it is very very bad on my side because this sickness it was had from China then why do they have to come in South Africa, it means they care enough about our citizens that are that side and I think by doing so they are protecting us.” More reactions:  Wuhan-SA repatriation mission Earlier the Health Department said they had received late cancellations and confirmations of South Africans returning from the city of Wuhan in China. But the South African Airways (SAA) chattered aircraft had landed with over 100 people on board. The Wuhan group and the South African National Defence Force (SANDF) officials are now being transported in buses to The Ranch Hotel. The South Africans who had been in Wuhan voiced their intention to return to South Africa following the coronavirus outbreak in China. Health Department Spokesperson, Popo Maja, has called for the privacy of the group to be respected. “The number is 114 South African nationals, 14 crew members and 18 medical staff. The total, I still have to work out, but three embassy members as well. We did have late cancellations and some late confirmation. They will be screened on arrival and there will be no contact with the airport staff. From the flight they will go straight into the busses and on-site there is medical staff and they will be checked and taken to their rooms,” says Maja.     Security is tight at the two entrances of the Ranch hotel to prevent any movement ahead of the arrival of the 122 South African citizens repatriated from China. They will be quarantined for 21 days at the hotel which is about 25 kilometers outside Polokwane. The entrances of the Ranch have been manned by soldiers and police officers.   