President Cyril Ramaphosa says that cabinet has decided to enforce travel bans following the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. The President was delivering a national address about the government’s moves to slow the spread of the virus in South Africa as well as measures to soften the impact of the coronavirus on the economy. Ramaphosa says any person who has visited high-risk countries in the past 20 days will be denied a visa. He adds that South African citizens returning from high-risk countries will be subjected to testing and self-isolation or quarantine on return to South Africa. Ramaphosa says, “We are imposing a travel ban on foreign nationals from high-risk countries such as Italy, Iran, South Korea, Spain, Germany, the United States, the United Kingdom, and China as from 18th March 2020. We have cancelled visas to visitors from those countries from today and previously granted visas are hereby revoked. South African citizens are advised to refrain from all forms of travel to or through the European Union, the United States, United Kingdom and other identified high-risk countries such as China, Iran and South Korea. This is effective immediately.” The President says 35 land ports of entry and two sea ports will be closed. Ramaphosa also says government will also regularly issue travel alerts. Cabinet has enforced travel bans on high-risk countries such as Germany, Italy, Iran, the United Kingdom, the United States, South Korea, Spain and China. South Africans are urged to avoid travel to these high-risk countries effective immediately. Travellers from medium risk countries such as Portugal, Singapore and Hong Kong will undergo high-intensity screening. The President says the coronavirus poses significant challenges to the economy. Below are reactions to SA’ COVID-19 preventive measures:  International travel for all citizens from all spheres of government has also been prohibited. The President has urged all citizens that have travelled to high-risk countries to avail themselves for testing. National disaster President Ramaphosa declares COVID-19 a national disaster, announcing that 61 people in South Africa had now been confirmed as having the coronavirus. He expresses concern about the spread of the virus between people in the country. “We have now declared a national state of disaster in terms of the Disaster Management Act. This will enable us to have an integrated and coordinated disaster management mechanism that will focus on preventing and reducing the outbreak of this virus. We will also be able to set up emergency, rapid and effective response systems to mitigate the severity of its impact.”   