The World Health Organisation (WHO) has recommended exercise to combat the effects of COVID-19. WHO Director General, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus was addressing the world from Geneva, Switzerland. Ghebreyesus says more than 9 000 people have lost their lives to COVID-19. “Everyday, COVID-19 seems to reach a new and tragic milestone. More than 210 000 cases have now been reported to the WHO and more than 9 000 people have lost their lives. Every loss of life is a tragedy. It is also motivation to double down and do everything we can to stop transmission and save lives.” Ghebreyesus says Wuhan, the epicentre of the virus, reported no new cases for the first time on Thursday since the virus broke out in November 2019. He also warned that people of all ages can contract COVID-19 and not just the elderly.  FINANCIAL TOLL Ghebreyesus says that WHO understands that the pandemic has taken a huge financial toll on businesses all over the world and on the global economy. “We are encouraged by the solidarity of business leaders to use their resources, experience and networks to improve the availability of supplies, communicate reliable information and protect their staff and customers. We are also encouraged that countries around the world continue to support the global response.” LOOKING AFTER YOURSELF WHO says it is important for people to look after their physical and mental health amid the COVID-19 outbreak. Ghebreyesus says this will not only help you in the long-term, it will also help you fight COVID-19 should you get it. Ghebreyesus has encouraged people to eat healthy, limit alcohol intake and not to smoke. “First, eat a healthy and nutritious diet which helps your immune system to function properly. Second, limit your alcohol consumption and avoid sugary drinks. Third, don’t smoke. Smoking can increase your risks of developing severe diseases if you become infected with COVID-19.” WHO recommends 30 minutes of physical activity a day for adults and one hour a day for children. The organisation says that if the local or national guidelines allow it, go outside for a walk a run or a ride and keep a safe distance from others. It has also encouraged people that cannot leave the house to find an exercise video online, dance to music, do some yoga or walk up and down the stairs. In the video below, WHO makes recommendations to curb the spread of COVID-19. 