Chairperson of the management board of Cowan House Preparatory School Andrew Barnes says they are taking precautionary measures after one parent tested positive for coronavirus. The school decided to shut down to ensure the safety of learners and parents. The 38-year-old patient, his wife and two children have been quarantined at their home in the upmarket suburb of Hilton. Barnes says they have communicated with the family. In the video below,  Andrew Barnes from Cowan House says they have decided to close the school as a precautionary measure:  Meanwhile, Barnes says they have communicated with neighbouring schools on their decision to shut down. “We have erred on the side of being incredibly conservative and have taken the decision to close the school until further notice. We are dealing incredibly well with the Department of Health and the Department of Education. They are incredible at present and we will be meeting with them at 12pm this [Friday] afternoon.” “There will be a full media briefing at 2pm on Friday afternoon were the minister [Dr Zweli Mkhize] will address the country. There is a great amount of support out there, from the parents … we have communicated with them responsibly and we have not had negative feedback at present,” adds Barnes. In the video below, Health Minister Dr Zweli Mkhize gives an update on Wuhan evacuation plans:  Good hygiene Parliament’s Health Portfolio Committee Chairperson Sibongiseni Dhlomo has urged South Africans to practice good personal hygiene to help prevent the spread of the coronavirus. “This is like any other flu-like illness which is a communicable disease by the spread of droplets. So if you can make sure when you sneeze, when you cough, we cough into a handkerchief or an elbow you just don’t cough openly where any other person can get what is coming from you. Do this in any other form of illness either than coronavirus.”  Climate and viruses Wits University medical expert on climate and viruses, Matthew Chersich says warm weather in South Africa could slow down the spread of the coronavirus. Chersich says the virus is like-flu and colds which spread faster in winter. “It’s the same as all the respiratory viral infections that spread in the winter. It’s the same as flu and other chest infections. They all spread largely in the winter. I think the key thing is that in the summer your chances of getting flu and cold are much smaller than in the winter.” President Ramaphosa satisfied with SA’s handling of deadly coronavirus President  Cyril Ramaphosa says he is satisfied with the country’s preparedness to deal with the outbreak of the coronavirus (COVID-19). Touching down from Cape Town on Thursday, the President’s first order was to assure South Africans that there is no need to panic. In the video, President Ramaphosa says if not dealt with effectively, an outbreak of the deadly coronavirus in South Africa will have a negative impact on the country’s already fragile economy. 