Kenya, like many other African countries, has put in place stringent measures to limit movement in and out the country. While some offices have recommended that employees work from home, it is proving difficult to have a total lockdown in a country where majority of people are either casual labourers or traders who depend on a daily income. In downtown Nairobi, Nairobi County Government public health officials fumigate every public space. This is Kenya’s latest attempt to contain the spread of the deadly coronavirus. From the streets, the team moves to public vehicles, spraying every nook and cranny. County officials say they are not taking chances. Kenya has confirmed seven positive cases of COVID-19. In the video below, Kenya confirms seven cases of the COVID-19:  Senior Public Health Officer of the County Anne Wanjiku, says their attempts are to create awareness of the pandemic. “Is it creating awareness to Nairobi citizens and to also to sensitise them on how to prevent the coronavirus.” But city residents go about their day to day business. Hawkers ply their wares and freely interact with potential clients. This less than a week since the government announced a ban on large gatherings, suspended learning in both private and public institutions in the country in a bid to contain the spread of COVID-19. Public transportation continues with business; commuters get a sprinkle of hand sanitisers as they get into the vehicles. However, it is clear that social distancing has largely been ignored. Residents ask how they are expected to survive. Across from here in Kibera informal settlements, a local non-governmental organisation, Shining Hope for Communities (SHOFCO), has started a campaign to educate residents on basic hygiene especially regular hand-washing. While they appreciate the handwashing lessons and they are ready to adhere, the residents are faced with the daily challenge of water scarcity. Resident Ibrahim Hussein says there’s a slum, making water connection poor. “We don’t get a lot of water in this place because this is a slum so water connection is very poor.” While the Cabinet Secretary for Health has spoken tough against those failing to social distance and even threatened to invoke stricter measures, it is clear that any decision taken will have to be a delicate balance between keeping people healthy and offering them options to continue putting food on the table. In the video below, Kenya suspends learning in all schools to curb the spread of the coronavirus: 