Correctional Services says it is conducting an investigation to determine whether the parole of AbaThembu King Buyelekhaya Dalindyebo continues or not. This comes after King Dalindyebo was arrested at the Bumbane Great Place on charges of assault and malicious damage to property. Abathembi King Dalindyebo being arrested:  He allegedly attacked his son, Prince Azenathi Dalindyebo and his wife. Azenathi allegedly sustained injuries and his wife has been hospitalised. Spokesperson Singabakho Nxumalo says the king has been released on warning, and an investigation is underway. “He subsequently appeared in court where he was released on warning. What’s important at this stage is to get all the facts so we could put together a profile that must go before the parole board, to make a determination whether there were any forms of deviation from the parole conditions that will determine whether or not the parolee in this case Dalindyebo will continue to be out in the community or will have to serve the remainder or his parole back in our care,” says Nxumalo. In the video below, SABC News Reporter, Lwandile Bulali sheds more light on circumstances surrounding the king’s arrest:  The Spokesperson of King Buyelekhaya Dalindyebo has sought to explain the incident that occurred at the Bumbane Great Place in the Eastern Cape. King Dalindyebo’s Spokesperson, Prince Mthunzi Ngonyama says Prince Azenathi refused the king’s earlier requests for him and his wife to vacate the premises. “When he was about to be released from prison he asked that he sent a delegation there … the parole board people, that he needs that place to be emptied because he does not want any confrontation with anyone there. Azenathi is Acting King. The response that we got is that he never had a problem with that … that anytime when the king was to come he can come, but just when the king was out there was now a different tune altogether from their side. They wanted to negotiate and all that. So, the king was not happy about that. So, anyway he waited thinking that at some point they will then accept what he’s requesting them to do. No action. Then he went there this morning,” explains Ngonyama. In the video below, the SABC News speaks to Contralesa President, Kgoshi Mathupa Mokoena:  The infographic below details the crimes committed by AbaThembu King Buyelekhaya Dalindyebo:  