South African Federation of Trade Unions’ General Secretary Zwelinzima Vavi says President Cyril Ramaphosa displayed leadership when he was delivering his nation address on coronavirus. He says President Ramaphosa’s intervention was critical to South African citizens. However Vavi says the measures that the President took could have been much better if they were introduced in the first case of coronavirus in the country. He says outsourced workers, labour brokers and short term workers will be the first to be affected, or to lose their jobs in this crisis. Speaking on The Globe Vavi says the measures that are introduced by the President will immediately impact on the economy that is already on recession. In this video , Zwelinzima Vavi react on President Cyril Ramaphosa’s nation address on coronavirus:  Earlier President Ramaphosa announced a raft of measures to try and contain the spread of the coronavirus (COVID-19) in South Africa, including a national state of disaster. Addressing the nation on Sunday, he said this will help in combatting the spread of the virus. Ramaphosa says the cabinet has decided to enforce travel bans on foreign nationals from high-risk countries such as Italy, Iran, Spain, South Korea, the United States, United Kingdom, Germany and China.  Loading… (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); This ban is effective from 18 March 2020. South Africa has 61 confirmed cases as of the COVID-19 which broke out in China in November 2019. The virus has since spread to different countries globally. Ramaphosa also announced that South African citizens that have visited high-risk countries in the last 20 days will undergo heavy testing and will be required to self-isolate for 20 days. He further urged South Africans to limit contact with high-risk countries. President Cyril Ramaphosa Nation address on coronavirus:  