African Christian Democratic Party (ACDP) leader, Reverend Kenneth Moshoe will be receiving his COVID-19 test results on Wednesday. The ACDP leader tested for the fast spreading virus on Sunday after coming into contact with five international guests who tested positive for coronavirus after a religious gathering in Bloemfontein. The church event was attended by roughly 200 people; it took place before the disaster management act could come into effect. One of the regulations stipulates that a gathering over 100 people is prohibited. On Sunday Meshoe dismissed reports that he had tested positive for the virus.  He said, “They said it takes two to three days to get the results. The officials that were there made some very positive comments, ‘you do not show any symptoms of being infected.’ I’m not surprised if this thing was started by somebody who hates me and who hopes that I will be positive and maybe even die. You can call me after four days to talk about it.” In the video below, Meshoe says his test results will only be available in about four days:  Meanwhile the number of confirmed COVID-19 infections in South Africa has risen to 554 – with two patients currently in ICU at private hospitals. President Cyril Ramaphosa announced the 21-day lockdown in an address to the nation on Monday, saying Africa’s most advanced economy needed to escalate its response to curb the spread of the outbreak. The graphic below indicates more details about the lockdown: 21-DAY LOCKDOWN sabcnews.com |  SABC News channel | SABC Radio news President Cyril Ramaphosa has declared a 21-day Nationwide lockdown effective from  midnight Thursday 26 March ﻿until 16th April What does it mean, what is imposed? All citizens to stay home, with exception of essential services personnel  Movement of citizens to be strictly controlled  Army to join police in enforcement efforts  Companies who continue to operate, to do so remotely  Temporary shelters to be built for the homeless (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));