Former Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) board chairperson, Popo Molefe has told the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture he remains concerned that former CEO Lucky Montana has managed to survive despite a ruling by the court and a corruption report against him. In 2015, former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela found that Montana flouted corporate governance, and enabled state capture to thrive under his leadership. Molefe told Justice Raymond Zondo he believes Montana has certain political affiliates who might be protecting him. In the video below, Molefe implicates Lucky Montana in his testimony:  Earlier, former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi returned to the Inquiry to apologise for having made false allegations against a former Department of Correctional Services official, Jabulile Sishuba. In his earlier testimony, Agrizzi said Sishuba had been amongst those who received millions of rands in bribes from the resources company – including former correctional services commissioner Linda Mti. In the video below, Agrizzi made claims about Linda Mti in his testimony  Sishuba approached the commission to get an order that Agrizzi retract the claims and should he refuse, indicated she would apply to cross-examine him. Agrizzi put the matter to rest in a prepared statement at the commission that is sitting at its new venue in Braamfontein. His apology comes amidst accusations by his former boss, Gavin Watson’s nephew Jared, that Agrizzi lied under oath. Watson died in August last year, two days before Jared claims his uncle was going to unmask Agrizzi’s lies before a South African Revenue Service Inquiry. “I am truly sorry as soon as it was brought to my attention that there was confusion that I had confused the names, I already apologised. There wasn’t malice intended. I think it was rough, it was confusing. I am very sorry I don’t want to overstress the point but I think I understand that it has done harm and damage. I apologised to Mrs Sishuba this morning. I said to her [I’m] sorry and she accepted [my apology] and I thank you for accepting my apology I made an error … a pure error and I am sorry,” explains Agrizzi. Click the video below to watch the live stream of the inquiry:  Additional reporting by Amina Accram