In the space of 24 hours, the Democratic presidential contest suddenly became a two-man race between former Vice President Joe Biden, whose campaign was floundering just a week ago, and US Senator Bernie Sanders, the party’s liberal champion. Biden surged to victory in at least eight of the 14 states where Democrats held primaries, or nominating contests, on so-called Super Tuesday, outperforming expectations. He not only won the states in the American South that he was expected to win, but also Massachusetts, Minnesota and Texas, where he had not been predicted to do as well. And he held his own in California, a liberal stronghold, as overall he amassed hundreds of delegates to the Democratic National Convention in July who will choose the party’s presidential nominee. In the video below, New York-based SABC News correspondent Sherwin Bryce-Pease says the Democratic presidential race is essentially a two man race   The slew of victories dramatically underscored that Biden’s campaign, only recently left for dead after setbacks in early primaries, is quickly regaining momentum. The Democratic establishment is embracing him, betting that the more moderate Biden is more electable than Sanders, a self-described democratic socialist with ambitious liberal policy ideas. For Biden, it has been an almost dizzying ascent that began on Saturday when he won his first nominating contest in South Carolina and a stream of important endorsements. For those who have been knocked down, counted out, left behind, this is your campaign,a jubilant Biden told supporters in Los Angeles as the returns came in. Just a few days ago, the press and the pundits declared the campaign dead.” But Sanders’ appeal to the most liberal wing of the party remained undeniable. His advantage in California was such that the race was called in his favor the moment the polls closed. He continues to hold a commanding edge with younger voters. “Tonight, I tell you with absolute confidence we’re going to win the Democratic nomination,” Sanders said at a rally in his home state of Vermont. In the video below, former US Ambassador to Tanzania Charles Stith, share his thoughts as another US presidential candidate drops out of the race  