The Transport Ministry says effective from Monday until Friday buses and taxis will be permitted to operate from 5am until 8pm. Government has extended public transport operating hours for people who are collecting their social grants during the coronavirus lockdown. In this video below, taxi industry unhappy with public transport lockdown plan:  Western Cape Transport MEC Bonginkosi Madikizela reiterated Minister Fikile Mbalula’s call for South Africans to exercise social distancing. He adds that people who are not grant beneficiaries shouldn’t try to take advantage of the special arrangement. “It’s very important for people to know that those who are going to get their grants, they must have their Sassa cards handy. They must have their identity documents handy because these are two important documents that will give them a pass in the case of a road blocks because we know that people will take chances.” Meanwhile taxis affiliated to National Taxi Council (Santaco) will be operating countrywide on as social grant recipients travel to collect their money. This was the assurance given by Boy Zondi, the KwaZulu-Natal Santaco Chairperson. Zondi says they have reached a resolution to operate all taxis from Monday after initially stopping all services on Friday because of the lockdown limit on the number of passengers. Zondi says they have taken a resolution to operate all taxis from 5am to 8pm, except for long-distance trips. “We need to operate taxis, the provinces that were not operating which were KwaZulu-Natal, Mpumalanga and Western Cape needs to go full force on operations except long distances.” “The minister has still not given the taxi industry the authority to operate long distances, As from tomorrow taxis will be operating as from five in the morning till eight in the evening but for now operation is back to normal KwaZulu-Natal and we urge our members to go back and operate.” Also Gauteng Police Commissioner Elias Mawela says there will be increased police visibility at all social grants pay points across the province amid the coronavirus lockdown. Officials will also ensure that social distancing is adhered to. Overall the number of infections is at 1 280 with two death.  However 31 people have recovered from the virus. The defence force has been deployed by President Cyril Ramaphosa to assist police during the lockdown and ensure adherence. Addressing the media in Johannesburg, Mawela says law enforcement will apply zero tolerance to those flouting the lockdown regulations.