The defence in the Timothy Omotoso trial wants parts of the second witness Lerato Msibi’s testimony taken off record, saying it is inadmissible. Defence lawyer Peter Dauberman is presenting technical arguments about a variety of documents as the trial continues. On Wednesday, Msibi told the Port Elizabeth High Court that she never gave consent to Omotoso to sexually assault her. She said he was powerful and she did not dare to go against him. Omotoso and his two co-accused Lusanda Sulani and Zukiswa Sitho, face 63 main and 34 alternative charges ranging from sexual assault, human trafficking and rape. Msibi testified that while she felt guilty and like she had sinned after sexual encounters with Omotoso, she also felt that it was holy. She continued to stay in the mission house, hoping she would get healed and the house she wanted. But that never happened. Msibi eventually left Omotoso’s mansion and reported what was happening at the house to the police in Secunda, Mpumalanga. She also confessed to her congregation, but urged them to keep loving Omotoso. In the video below, SABC News Reporter Anda Nqonji wraps Wednesday’s testimonies.   Msibi also told the court how she joined the church. She says she joined the Jesus Dominion International Church because of the miracles Omotoso performed. She was homeless and suffered from a heart condition. Msibi had her first interaction with Omotoso at a hotel in Secunda after a crusade. Here, she saw how the young queued to greet him by kneeling between his legs while he is seated. After an uneventful visit to his hotel room, he later invited her for a walk in the garden. After revealing her desire to be healed and getting a house, he told her not to worry as she now belongs to him. The second time was at the mission house in Umhlanga, Durban. Like with the first witness, Andisiwe Dike, it started with massaging his feet, then he would order her to lie down and sexually please himself. Thereafter he prayed for forgiveness. The state concluded questioning Msibi. Defence lawyer Peter Dauberman indicated he will start proceedings on Thursday with objections before he commences cross-examination of the witness.    