The media have gathered at the entrance of the Gateway International Airport at Polokwane in Limpopo. This is ahead of the landing of the SAA chattered aircraft carrying a group of  South African citizens repatriated from Wuhan, in China, the origin of the Coronavirus pandemic. The plane is expected to land at the Gateway Airport on Saturday morning.  The group including volunteers and SANDF officials will be transported via road to the Ranch Hotel. The hotel will be placed under strict lockdown and closed to the general public during a mandatory quarantine period of 21-days. SABC’s Chriselda Lewis reporting from the Ranch Resort in Polokwane:  The military and SAA staff flew from South Africa to Wuhan to repatriate the South Africans. They were screened before the flight and will enter a three-week quarantine period in Limpopo after arriving back on South African soil. Tight security Security is tight at the two entrances of the Ranch hotel to prevent any movement ahead of the arrival of the 122 South African citizens repatriated from China. They will be quarantined for 21 days at the hotel which is about 25 kilometers outside Polokwane.  The entrances of the Ranch have been manned by soldiers and police officers. The aircraft, which left China at 3 am China time, is expected to land at one of the runway strips at the airport. Inside the craft, the group has been separated from one another, keeping social distancing and are wearing protective gear. An additional step also included decontamination spraying. The group has tested negative for COVID-19.  ‘Social media comments’ South Africa has a total of 24 confirmed coronavirus cases. Deputy Minister of Justice John Jeffrey has condemned social media comments that discriminate against South Africans who are being repatriated from China. “ I think some of the comments on social media especially with people asking for names and addresses of those affected in response to the people from Wuhan who have been repatriated has not been both in Limpopo and the Free State where they were originally meant to go is not something to be proud of,” says Jeffrey. He says the prejudice faced by those infected with coronavirus is similar to the prejudice that was faced by people living with HIV/AIDS in the past.   