South African National Defence Force (SANDF) Spokesperson, Sphiwe Dlamini has sought to downplay reports that some of the soldiers have been using excessive force against members of the public to enforce the 21-days nationwide lockdown. In his address to the nation on Tuesday night President Cyril Ramaphosa called on the SANDF members to act within the law at all times. He cautioned them against harming South Africans and instead ensure their safety. Earlier, Defence Minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula condemned the alleged conduct of the SANDF members, but called on members of the public to avoid provoking them. Dlamini says members of the public are equally responsible for observing the lockdown regulations that stipulate that they stay at home. He says, “You’re equally on the wrong if you’re outside of your house during the lockdown which stipulates very clearly that you’re supposed to be in your own home and not walking around, unless you have a reason to be outside like to go do your groceries and your medicine and you go out in the streets and have fun that’s equally wrong. But I’m not justifying or condoning the behaviour of some of our soldiers.” AUDIO: SABC’s interview with Sphiwe Dlamini: Ekurhuleni Metro Police officer in court An Ekurhuleni Metro Police officer and a security guard accused of murdering a man in Vosloorus, east of Johannesburg, are expected to appear in the Boksburg Magistrate’s Court on Tuesday. It is understood that they were arrested on Sunday following the murder of Sibusiso Amos. The police officer and the guard are alleged to have followed Amos to his home where he was shot several times following an altercation after he was alleged to have been drinking alcohol at a tavern, against lockdown regulations. The 40 year-old Sibusiso Amos was shot and killed during a lockdown enforcement operation in Vosloorus on Sunday. It is understood that EMPD officers were patrolling the area when they noticed people drinking alcohol at a tavern. The officers were then allegedly attacked by the patrons of the tavern when they attempted to make an arrest. They retaliated firing rubber bullets. A police officer and a security guard then allegedly followed Amos who was one of the patrons at the tavern to his home, where he was fatally shot. INFOGRAPHIC: How citizens can report security forces: 