The Democratic Alliance (DA) in Gauteng says it is seeking legal advice on whether it should take the provincial government’s decision to dissolve the Tshwane Council on review. Premier David Makhura announced the move early on Thursday. It follows Mayor Stevens Mokgalapa’s resignation in February, which exacerbated the city’s leadership and governance crisis. Acting city manager Makgorometje Makgata’s three-month contract had also come to an end. In the video below, Makhura cites some of the reasons behind the Gauteng government’s decision:  Makhura says an administrator will be appointed to run the Tshwane municipality – until a new council is elected within 90 days. Gauteng DA leader, John Moodey, is fuming. He has questioned why no action has been taken against African National Congress (ANC) and Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) members, who disrupted council meetings. “We will not bow down and be intimidated by the EFF or ANC and that is why we will be taking this matter of placing under administration of Tshwane to our legal advisors. We are already busy with it and seek senior council’s opinion and if we have a case. We will take this matter to court for review. If we do not have a case, we are prepared to go to a by-election because the people will have a say on which government they want,” adds Moodey. DA Tshwane mayors’ troubles Both DA mayors that Tshwane has had after the 2016 municipal elections have left office under a cloud. Mokgalapa was forced to resign following pressure from opposition parties after his purported sex audio recording went viral on social media in 2019. In the recording, Mokgalapa could be heard bad-mouthing senior municipal officials and his colleagues. The recording allegedly was captured during a sexual intercourse with then Roads and Transport MMC Sheila Senkubuge, who also resigned in the wake of the scandal. In the video below, Mokgalapa confirms his intention to vacate office:  Mokgalapa had been appointed in 2019 ahead of the national polls, in the DA’s bid to stabilise the municipality following the resignation of Solly Msimanga. Msimanga vacated office in January of that year, saying he wanted to focus on his campaign to become Gauteng Premier. Some, however, suspected he was under pressure to quit over claims that he irregularly awarded a multibillion-rand contract to consultancy firm, GladAfrica. Additional reporting by Tshepiso Moche