The Africa Centre for Disease Control and Prevention which is based in the Ethiopian capital, Addis Ababa, has given the assurance that the continent is prepared to deal with the coronavirus. The assurance comes as Algeria confirms two new cases of coronavirus infections of a 53-year-old woman and her 24-year-old daughter. The cases bring to three the number of people infected with the virus in the North African country. Confirmed cases of the virus on the continent have risen to six. Egypt has reported two cases and Nigeria one. The centre’s deputy director Dr. Ahmed Ogwell says they are working closely with the Chinese health authorities. “There is screening at the port of exit in China and people are being screened so that when they get into that flight, there is relative confidence that they are not unwell. When they arrive in Africa at all ports of entry where we still have flights coming directly, they are also being screened so that we are relatively confident that they are not unwell. If you see the cases that are confirmed on the African continent, they are largely from Europe.” Coronavirus COVID-19 Global Cases by Johns Hopkins CSSE (updated hourly)  In the video below, Africa ramps up its surveillance capacity at points of entry.  Evacuation of SA nationals from Wuhan, China Meanwhile, the South African National Defense Force will evacuate 151 South Africans from Wuhan, the Chinese city at the epicenter of the coronavirus outbreak in the next seven to ten days. On Sunday, Health Minister Zweli Mkhize said the group would be placed in quarantine for 21 days. He did not disclose where this would be but said families and other visitors would not be allowed to visit during that period. Authorities will monitor those in quarantine for the duration of the incubation period. They will be tested and counselled before being integrated into society. In a telephonic interview on Morning Live, Health Minister Dr. Zweli Mkhize elaborates more on the evacuation process  Reduce your risk of coronavirus infection:   