The President of Botswana Dr Mokgweetsi Masisi is in a 14-day self-isolation period after visiting Namibia this weekend. The President’s emergency visit to Namibia was to seize the opportunity of the presence of other regional heads of states in Windhoek to discuss critical COVID-19 measures taken in the respective countries sharing borders with Botswana. According to the government of Botswana, President Masisi will be tested for the coronavirus. The entourage that travelled with the President to Namibia is also in self-isolation and will be tested as well. Three cases of the coronavirus have been registered in Namibia and while the Botswana government believes that there is a low risk of transmission, they are worried about the low testing rates in the region. Masisi will be working from his official residence but quarantined away from his family. COVID-19 in other African countries: Kenya confirms eight more coronavirus cases Kenya has confirmed eight more coronavirus cases in the country, bringing the total to 15. Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe says the patients are five Kenyans, two French nationals and a Mexican. Kagwe says the patients have been isolated as well as 363 other people who are suspected of having the virus. Kenya also announced that all international flights in and out of the country will be suspended from Wednesday. On Tuesday, Kenya confirmed its fourth positive case of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19). In this video, Kenya confirmed three more positive cases of COVID -19:  Zimbabwe confirms second coronavirus case Zimbabwe has confirmed its second case of the coronavirus (COVID-19). The man from Harare had recently travelled to New York in the US. On Saturday, Zimbabwe reported its first confirmed case of the novel coronavirus. The 38-year-old from Victoria Falls had travelled to the United Kingdom earlier in March. Zimbabwe’s Health Minister, Obadiah Moyo, says the man returned to Zimbabwe through South Africa and started feeling ill. Equatorial Guinea reports first coronavirus case: Health Ministry Eswatini, a small landlocked Southern African country, reported its first confirmed case of coronavirus (COVID-19)  on Saturday. Meanwhile, COVID-19 has now spread to at least 19 countries across Africa – with recent cases confirmed in Eswatini, Kenya, Ethiopia, Sudan, Mauritania and Guinea. In the video below, the Tanzanian government says it will crackdown on fake news peddlers:  Below is a Live Tracking of the cases, death toll and other information, updated daily:  