Basic Education Minister, Angie Motshekga, says schools have been advised to provide learners with information on protecting themselves against the coronavirus. The Grayston Preparatory school, north of Johannesburg, was closed on Monday following reports that one of the educators had been in contact with a person who has tested positive for the virus. There are 7 confirmed cases of COVID-19 in South Africa – but no deaths. INFOGRAPHIC: Seven coronavirus cases now confirmed in South Africa  The number of infections worldwide has increased to more than 107 000 with about 3 600 deaths. Addressing the media Motshekga says: “We had to reflect on the coronavirus because we have been receiving many inquiries on our plans to deal with it in schools.” “We have advised our schools to ensure the children to wash their hands, cover their mouths when they cough, to avoid contact with sick people or a friend who is coughing, avoid touching their eyes and ears. It is basically guidelines that the health department has circulated that we are working on.” In the video below, Minister of Basic Education says her department is taking all relevant steps to protect children from coronavirus  Two schools closed Grayston Preparatory School is the second in South Africa to close over the virus. The move follows reports that one of the educators had been in contact with a person who has tested positive for the coronavirus. The Gauteng Education Department could only confirm the closure of the school but referred other matters to the National Health Department. Last week, Cowan House Preparatory School closed after a parent of two of its pupils tested positive for the coronavirus. The children’s mother has now been confirmed to have contracted the virus. The young ones were also tested and found to be negative but they will remain in self-quarantine. The deep cleaning of their school continues on Monday. The school’s management has said it will consult with health authorities, ahead of the planned re-opening of the school on Tuesday. Steps to reduce the risk of contracting the COVID-19 