Renowned Sanusi and traditional healer Credo Mutwa has passed away. The Credo Mutwa Foundation has confirmed the passing of the 98-year-old. The Foundation is yet to release a statement with more information. Meanwhile, the family of the Sanusi has asked for space during this time. Mutwa is famed for his predictions of historic events in the country, such as the 1976 Youth Uprising. Refurbished home In November last year, after years of living in a dilapidated house, Mutwa and his family moved into a large refurbished home. The construction of the home, which was done by the Department of Arts and Culture, was a stop start affair which left the family uncertain of when it would be finished. At the handover of the home by Sports, Arts and Culture Minister Nathi Mthetwa, Mutwa’s wife, Virginia, expressed joy at now being able to look after her aging husband in a more habitable home. “I didn’t agree for my husband to be looked after by the people of the old age. I want to be with him. But today I am so happy because I’m going to be with my husband, loveliest one, my loveliest one than anyone in a beautiful house. No rain will get us.” Mthethwa explained that renovations to the house of South African legend, Credo Mutwa, are part of the beginning of truly honouring the Sanusi. “And beyond today there is what we said we should be doing going forward, ongoing engagement; conversation with the public about the role baba Mutwa has played in our country as a sanusi.” In the video below, Nathi Mthethwa speak to the SABC after handing over the house:  Mutwa returns to Lotlamoreng Dam In October 2018, Mutwa made an emotional return to the Lotlamoreng Dam in Mahikeng, an area from which he was evicted during Apartheid. He used the occasion to call on the government to preserve its history and to speed up development in the area. Many people used to make the trek there to learn from the well-known spiritual leader. However, over three decades ago the former Bophuthatswana homeland government evicted him from a cave where he had been living with his wife. “Lotlamoreg is a very important sheet of water. I am talking cold historical truth, history should not be thrown away like an old pumpkin. History should not be scoffed on. History should be not mocked,” said Mutwa. In the video below, Credo Mutwa’s trust celebrates his life: 