The Credo Mutwa Foundation has called on South Africans to join the Mutwa family in mourning the death of world renowned Sanusi, Sangoma and author Credo Mutwa. Mutwa died on Wednesday morning at the Kuruman Hospital in the Northern Cape at the age of 98. The Foundation’s spokesperson is Matshediso Setai says, “uBaba Mutwa was rushed to hospital on Tuesday and passed on in the early hours of 25 March 2020… at the age of 98 his health has been fragile and he has been in and out of hospital in recent past days…” “The foundation is requesting the nation to join the family in mourning and humbly request the space and time to mourn. The foundation will be keeping the nation informed as the details become available,” says Setai. Traditional healer Aubrey Matshiqi has called on South Africans to take time to reflect on the teachings of traditional healer and world-renowned author. Matshiqi says Mutwa’s death comes at a time when South Africans were beginning to appreciate his teachings. “What South Africa has lost is a great healer and a great prophet; one who was gifted immensely by our ancestors. But I am filled with joy by the fact that he leaves us at a time when the country was beginning to remember him. I hope that during the twenty one days of our lockdown, one of the things we are going to do is to meditate on his message,” says Matshiqi. Refurbished home In November last year, after years of living in a dilapidated house, Mutwa and his family moved into a large refurbished home. The construction of the home, which was done by the Department of Arts and Culture, was a stop start affair which left the family uncertain of when it would be finished. At the handover of the home by Sports, Arts and Culture Minister Nathi Mthetwa, Mutwa’s wife, Virginia, expressed joy at now being able to look after her aging husband in a more habitable home. “I didn’t agree for my husband to be looked after by the people of the old age. I want to be with him. But today I am so happy because I’m going to be with my husband, loveliest one, my loveliest one than anyone in a beautiful house. No rain will get us.” Mthethwa explained that renovations to the house of South African legend, Credo Mutwa, are part of the beginning of truly honouring the Sanusi. “And beyond today there is what we said we should be doing going forward, ongoing engagement; conversation with the public about the role baba Mutwa has played in our country as a sanusi.” In the video below, Nathi Mthethwa speak to the SABC after handing over the house:  Mutwa returns to Lotlamoreng Dam In October 2018, Mutwa made an emotional return to the Lotlamoreng Dam in Mahikeng, an area from which he was evicted during Apartheid. He used the occasion to call on the government to preserve its history and to speed up development in the area. Many people used to make the trek there to learn from the well-known spiritual leader. However, over three decades ago the former Bophuthatswana homeland government evicted him from a cave where he had been living with his wife. “Lotlamoreg is a very important sheet of water. I am talking cold historical truth, history should not be thrown away like an old pumpkin. History should not be scoffed on. History should be not mocked,” said Mutwa. In the video below, Credo Mutwa’s trust celebrates his life:  Quotes by Credo Mutwa Credo Mutwa Guotes by SABC Digital News