The Traditional Health Practitioners organisation is calling on all healers that claim to have a cure for the coronavirus (COVID-19) to refrain from misleading people. The practitioner’s general-secretary, Solly Nduku, has issued a stern warning that anyone who misleads communities to make money at the expense of the plight of the people, will be dealt with by the organisation and the laws of the country. “They must refrain from false and misleading claims of having powers to cure or knowing how to cure or treat COVID-19. We do not want our age-old African traditional practices to be dragged in the mud by people whose aim is to make money by any means necessary. “We call on community members to dismiss such charlatans for who they are. They are dangerous impostors who will drive people to their graves. We must all remain at home so that we disrupt the transmission of this deadly virus.” Myths about the coronavirus Myths around the risks of coronavirus have been doing the rounds on social media. This is what you need to know about the virus. Below are some of the myths  Below are things you need to know about Coronavirus: As scientists continue to come up with a vaccine for the coronavirus, the virus has claimed over 10 000 lives in Italy. *Older people and those with other health conditions, such as asthma, heart disease, cancer and diabetes, are most vulnerable to the virus. *Face masks aren’t that useful even though you might see people wearing them in China. *There is limited evidence that face masks work. *For you to get the virus, you have to be in close contact with an infected person. *Also, it’s important to cover your mouth and nose while sneezing, with a tissue or your elbow. *Wash your hands frequently before eating with soap or sanitiser and always keep your distance from people who are coughing and sneezing. *The new coronavirus is thought to have originated in a live animal market in Wuhan, China. *Scientists are working hard to develop a vaccine for the new virus.  