A 60-year-old German tourist has died in Egypt, becoming its first fatality from the coronavirus in the North African country. The man was taken to hospital with a fever after arriving in Hurghada from Luxor on Friday. He was placed in intensive care but refused to be transferred to a designated isolation hospital. The number of people infected with coronavirus has topped 106-thousand across the world. This as the outbreak reaches more countries and causes more economic damage. Mainland China, where the outbreak began, has seen at least three-thousand-and-97 deaths. However, the epidemic is now spreading faster elsewhere. Egypt is rushing to protect its important tourism sector and reassure travellers it is safe to visit after an outbreak of the coronavirus on a cruise ship on the River Nile. Officials said on Saturday the coronavirus had been detected in 45 people, including foreign tourists, after the vessel reached the southern city of Luxor. Until then, Egypt had reported only three confirmed cases of the virus. The ministers of tourism, health and civil aviation toured a temple on Sunday in central Luxor, across the Nile from the Valley of the Kings where pharaohs were buried in tombs carved into rock. “We are here to respond to rumours saying that there are no tourists and people are afraid of coming. Thank God, people are here,” Khaled al-Anani, the tourism and antiquities Minister, told state television before the camera panned across to show tourists queuing to enter the site. “No to exaggerated reactions. Our eyes are on everything, “said Health Minister Hala Zayed. The tourism industry is an important driver of economic growth and has rebounded after a decline following the 2011 uprising that toppled long-serving leader Hosni Mubarak. Revenue was a record high of $12.57 billion in the financial year that ended last July, according to central bank figures. At another top tourism site, the Giza Pyramids outside Cairo, guides and souvenir sellers said business had slowed over the past month because of fears over the coronavirus.