Weary passengers aboard a cruise ship idled at sea for days by a coronavirus outbreak erupted in cheers on Monday as the vessel sailed into San Francisco Bay en route to the Port of Oakland and the next, unexpected phase of their voyage, two weeks of quarantine. The 2 400 passengers, who have been largely confined to their staterooms since Thursday, were to begin disembarking on Monday for transport to quarantine stations or hospitals, depending on whether they are well or need immediate medical attention. Except for those with acute illness, the 1 100 crew members are to remain aboard the Grand Princess, which will depart the Port of Oakland as soon as possible to be quarantined for two weeks in an as-yet undisclosed location outside San Francisco Bay, officials said. Video footage shot by one of the arriving cruise guests and shared with Reuters showed jubilant passengers cheering from their stateroom balconies and open windows, some shouting,”We’re home!” as the vessel passed beneath the Golden Gate Bridge into the bay. Twenty-one people aboard the ship, mostly crew, tested positive on Friday for coronavirus, which causes the respiratory disease known as COVID-19, in an initial round of diagnostic screenings performed on about 45 people with symptoms. The remaining passengers are to be tested and monitored for signs and symptoms of the illness that can lead to pneumonia once they reach their designated quarantine sites. Denise Stoneham, 52, a Bay area resident on the cruise with her husband, seemed to take the ordeal in stride as she spoke to Reuters by Face time while the ship glided into the port. “It hasn’t been too much of a hardship for us; it’s just been more of an inconvenience, I guess,” she said. “We’re just anxious to get home.” The map below, tracks coronavirus cases across the world:  Princess Cruises, owner-operator of the ship, announced that passengers would receive a full refund for the price of the cruise, including air travel, hotel, ground transportation and pre-paid shore excursions. The company also offered patrons credit for a future cruise equal to the fare paid for the voyage. But at least one couple aboard the Grand Princess were seeking more than a refund. In what was believed to be the first civil case stemming from the cruise outbreak, Ronald and Eva Weissberger of Broward County, Florida, sued the cruise line for more than $1 million, saying they were traumatized by the fear of developing coronavirus. Parent company Carnival Corp, the world’s leading cruise operator, did not immediately respond to a request for comment.