Gauteng Premier David Makhura has called on families, who want to conduct funerals or weddings, to inform their nearest police station. The call is part of government’s efforts to contain the coronavirus, which the President has declared a National State of Disaster. President Cyril Ramaphosa also announced that gatherings of more than 100 people are banned. South Africa has 116 cases of the COVID-19 infection, of which the majority is in Gauteng. Makhura says Gauteng is the most vulnerable as the province is densely populated and has the most developed transport. The Gauteng Premier, along with other provincial officials, briefed the media on measures to combat the spread of the infection. “We want to call on business to cooperate, including township establishments. Everyone who is applying for a funeral or for a wedding needs to do so at the nearest police station in your area. The police stations are helping us to monitor to ensure that the size of those events complies with the law. So, there’s a specific provincial police officer who is designated on behalf of the provincial commissioner coordinating all those applications so that there is full compliance,”  the Gauteng Premier says. In the video below, Makhura briefs the media on a comprehensive action plan to curb the spread of COVID-19:  Meeting with religious leaders Makhura says he will meet with religious leaders in Gauteng on Friday as part of government’s effort to contain the spread of COVID-19. Makhura says most institutions have indicated they will cancel or postpone Easter services and has welcomed the move. The number of COVID-19 cases in South Africa has risen to 116, with no deaths reported. CORONAVIRUS  STATISTICS IN SOUTH AFRICA COVID-19 CONFIRMED CASES | 116 |  18 MARCH 2020  Free State  North West  Gauteng  Mpumalanga  Northern Cape Eastern Cape  Limpopo sabcnews.com |  SABC News channel | SABC Radio news 4 61  KwaZulu-Natal 19 Western Cape 31 116 3070 2954 POSITIVE CASES NEGATIVE CASES DEATHS TESTS CONDUCTED 0 SOURCE: Department of Health  & ﻿National Institute of Communicable Diseases  1 (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); Meanwhile, Gauteng Health MEC Bandile Masuku says they are in discussions with medical practitioners and hospitals across the province to downscale outpatient and elective medical procedures in a bid to increase capacity as they battle the coronavirus. Masuku says they will also be acquiring more testing kits for the province. At the same time, the Commission for the Promotion and Protection of the Rights of Cultural, Religious, and Linguistic Communities (CRL Commission) has urged people to adhere to the safety measures and precautions against the spread of the coronavirus, announced by President Cyril Ramaphosa. The measures include a ban on meetings of more than 100 people. The Chairperson of the CRL Rights Commission Professor David Mosoma has released a statement, citing events that pose a danger to South Africans. These include funerals, weddings, unveilings, baptismal services, stokvels, holy communions as well as ceremonies related to the return of Amathwasa. “The Commission therefore appeals to the churches to adhere and embrace the call of President Ramaphosa with regard to small scale services not exceeding 100 people.” There are nearly 200 000 cases across the globe and close to 8 000 deaths. President Cyril Ramaphosa on Sunday declared the pandemic a national state of disaster. Countries affected by SA travel ban Copy of epidemic v pendamic