The abaThembu acting King Azenathi Zanelizwe Dalindyebo has applied for a protection order against his father King Buyelekhaya Dalindyebo entering the Bumbane Great Place, outside Mthatha in the Eastern Cape. This follows an incident last week during which King Buyelekhaya allegedly terrorised the family including his son, Azenathi. According to a witness at the scene, Dalindyebo arrived at the royal palace around 3am armed with several weapons. After apparently breaking a window with a crowbar and shouting profanities, he allegedly began searching for the acting king, who quickly fled from the residence. It is believed the wife of acting king Azenathi Zaneliswa Dalindyebo was injured during the incident and has been admitted to the hospital. King Dalindyebo was then arrested. In the video below, spectators watch as a police van hauls away King Dalindyebo, outside the Bumbane Great Place:  The abaTembu Royal family Spokesperson Chief Zwelenqaba Mgudlwa says they want to be legally protected from King Buyelekhaya. “Yes, he got the interdict … being interdicted by the acting king because they were scared and they were being attacked by King Zwelibanzi. Therefore, they are securing themselves by the act of the law.” King Buyelekhaya’s Spokesperson Prince Mthunzi Ngonyama has confirmed the receipt of the protection order but they are challenging its validity. “Kumkani has received a protection order from his son, preventing him to enter Bumbane Great Place premises and he stated certain things that Kumkani went there, threatened them and he had to run for his life and so forth. We had an issue with the protection order in a manner in which it was written. We stated with them that it was defective, but they continued to use it against us.” King Dalindyebo was released from prison in December after serving a third of his sentence. King Buyelkhaya’s faction is expected to hold a media briefing on Monday afternoon in East London on the developments surround the King and his kingship. Below is an infographic detailing the crimes King Dalindyebo committed:       