South Africa has become the latest country to implement a lockdown amid the outbreak of the coronavirus. President Cyril Ramaphosa declared a 21-day nationwide lockdown amid the rapid rise in the COVID-19 infection rates in the country. The Department of Health earlier issued a statement putting the number of infections in the country at a staggering 402. Economic measures on the SA lockdown: CORONAVIRUS | 21-DAY LOCKDOWN sabcnews.com |  SABC News channel | SABC Radio news 5 economic measures  Disability and elderly grants  to be paid earlier  Tax incentives for over 4 million private sector workers  Distressed SMMEs to receive up to R500-million  Over R3-billion to fast-track funding for vulnerable industrial businesses  Solidarity Response Fund established.   To donate go to: www.solidarityfund.co.za   (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); Lockdown Measures for South Africa: 21-DAY LOCKDOWN sabcnews.com |  SABC News channel | SABC Radio news President Cyril Ramaphosa has declared a 21-day Nationwide lockdown effective from  midnight Thursday 26 March ﻿until 16th April What does it mean, what is imposed? All citizens to stay home, with exception of essential services personnel  Movement of citizens to be strictly controlled  Army to join police in enforcement efforts  Companies who continue to operate, to do so remotely  Temporary shelters to be built for the homeless (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); The outbreak of the coronavirus forced countries into taking strict measures to try to curb the virus from spreading. European countries such as France, Spain, Belgium and Germany have implemented lockdown on their countries in an attempt to curb the spread of the virus. The World Health Organisation (WHO) had announced that over 11 000 people around the world have died from the virus, going on to label the epidemic as ‘World’s number one enemy’. China It is believed that the coronavirus stems from Wuhan in China. Wuhan which has a capital of 11 million people has been on lockdown for over 50 days. Upon lockdown the city prohibited coming in or out of the city, public transport and private cars barred from the roads. Wuhan closed the last of 14 makeshift hospitals set up to treat and isolate patients after the outbreak had overwhelmed the city’s healthcare system. Belgium Belgium Health Minister Maggie De Block announced a lockdown which will continue for about eight weeks. Belgians during the lockdown were permitted to leave home only to purchase food, Health-related matters or helping a person in need. The country has a total number of 3743 confirmed cases, it has recorded 88 deaths with 401 patients recorded as recovered from the epidemic coronavirus. Italy Italy so far holds the biggest rise of the coronavirus as the death rose to 627 in one day, the highest rise recorded in a day anywhere else. In Bergamo in the affluent northern region of Lombardy the number of fatalities was four times higher. Italy overtook China as the country registered the most fatal deaths. The total cases of the coronavirus climbed to 47 021 from 41 035. The government says it is putting together a 300-strong team of medical volunteers from the rest of the country to reinforce to the worst-affected areas. United Kingdom The United Kingdom sent the army to hospitals to deliver protective equipment and told people to stay at home warning over social distancing or the government would bring in more extreme measures to stop the coronavirus spread. Recorded to date 281 Britons have been confirmed dead from the virus and British authorities stepped up action in fighting the spread of this virus. Health Secretary Matt Hancock admitted there had been issues saying the army would drive trucks throughout the day and night to get supplies to medical staff. France France President Emmanuel Macron has ordered the French to stay at home other than to buy groceries, travel to work, exercise or for medical care. However, some medical professionals have called for stricter measures. President Macron told religious authorities that has is not in support of a total lockdown of the country. France stands at 19 856 confirmed coronavirus cases, of which they have recorded 860 deaths with 2 200 recovered patients. Spain Spain implemented a partial lockdown as a 15-day state of emergency to fight the outbreak of the coronavirus as the country is the second-worst European affected country after Italy. The lockdown was implemented on an immediate effect with all bars, restaurants and shops selling anything but food and other staples must shut down. Citizens were to stay indoors unless when buying food. Spain has 33 089 confirmed cases of the coronavirus with a death toll of 2 207 and recovered patients at 3 355. Greece Greece announced on Sunday that the country is on lockdown to combat the spread of the outbreak of the coronavirus. Greece had confirmed 94 new cases of the virus on Sunday its largest single-day jump, taking its total to 624, with 15 deaths. From the 10th of March Greece took measures as to close schools, gyms, cinemas, restaurants, bars, nightclubs, retail shops, shopping malls, museums and archaeological sites including the Acropolis, ahead of other governments in Europe.   