National Police Commissioner Kehla Sitole has condemned the attack against three police officers in which one was shot and killed and two others seriously wounded in separate incidents. A Gauteng police officer was shot and killed in Garsfontein when a suspect he and his two colleagues were trying to apprehend grabbed his firearm and fatally shot him. The deceased officer’s colleagues retaliated  and wounded the suspect. He is now under police guard in hospital. In Kwazulu-Natal, three constables who were on patrol came under fire. Two were seriously wounded. National police spokesperson Brenda Muridili says Sitole has commended the bravery of the deceased’s colleagues. “The National Commissioner of Police Khehla John Sitole has commended the bravery of the detectives that were on the scene with the deceased member for applying the necessary force to apprehend the man that allegedly attacked them and subsequently killed their colleague. General Sitole has directed management of the province to further ensure that the colleagues of the deceased member are afforded the necessary debriefing and counselling. The National Commissioner has also wished the injured KwAZulu-Natal members a speedy recovery.” General Sitole has directed the management of the province to further ensure that the colleagues of the deceased member be afforded the necessary debriefing and counselling as prescribed by our Employee Health and Wellness. SHOOTOUT IN DURBAN In another incident, a suspected car hijacker has died and another injured after a shootout with police near Verulam, north of Durban. It is alleged that the two suspects hijacked a vehicle in Cato Manor and made their way towards Verulam. The vehicle’s satellite tracking was activated after the hijacking. During a police chase, the suspects opened fire. Both suspects sustained gunshot wounds and one succumbed to his injuries. Police spokesperson Jay Naicker says the suspects had hijacked the vehicle an hour before the shootout. “During the shootout, both men were injured and a pistol with a series number filed off was recovered. The suspects were in their early thirties and were taken to a local hospital for medical atten under police guard. One of the suspects succumbed due to his injuries. Attempted murder, possession of unlicensed firearm and an inquest docket was open at the Verulam police station for further investigation. The remaining suspect will be charged and will appear at the Verulam Magistrate’s Court as soon as he is released from hospital.” – Additional reporting by Samke Litchfield.