The South African National AIDS Council (SANAC) is concerned about hate crimes against the LGBTIQ+ community. SANAC Co-Chair, Steve Letsike says the country’s laws fail to protect vulnerable communities. She was speaking in Sandto during the launch of the South Africa’s Human Rights Plan, to address stigma and discrimination against people affected by HIV and TB. “As South Africans, we have a long way to go, hate speech and hate crime are a big challenge because we have not ensured that there is legislation is in place. Violence and murders targeting key populations are continuing. We are not accepted because our bodies continue to be a site of struggle, our bodies continue to be a crime scene” says Letsike. The meeting comes a week before Human Rights Day in South Africa. Recent homophobic attack: The death of 23-year old budding musician Lindokuhle Cele last month sparked anger and frustration in uMlazi, Durban and on social media.  Social media expressed the brutality of this killing under #Justice4Lindo. A man believed to be from the same area as Lindokuhle (also known as Lindo) is accused of allegedly stabbing Lindo and left a knife stuck in his eye. It is understood that the incident was a homophobic attack, as the accused and victim are known to each other. Family spokesperson and Lindo’s aunt, Nombuso Cele confirmed the death to SABC News.  Nombuso says Lindo was recently stabbed numerous times at a local shop in uMlazi and died at Prince Mshiyeni Memorial Hospital. “While he was waiting [at the shop] the culprit took out his knife and started stabbing him on the spine and left a knife in his left eye.  Lindo asked the culprit to have mercy on him.” Nombuso says the incident was a homophobic attack as the perpetrator was against Lindo being gay, “the culprit said in his life he has never seen a beautiful guy who is famous and loved by many people.” In the audio below, Nombuso describes Lindo as a loving person: Video: Politicians condemn the murder of up-and-coming musician Lindokuhle Cele Another family grieves for their loved one: A Klerksdorp family, in the North West, is calling for justice, following the death of their son in what they believe was a hate crime. A 16-year-old gay learner, Omphemetse Moleme was found dead in a Jouberton house early last month. Members of the LGBTQI-Plus community in the area believe that Moleme was killed for being gay. Omphemetse Moleme was found dead inside a Jourberton township house, in Klerksdorp after he went missing for a few days, before locals discovered his body – in a house belonging to a man unknown to Moleme’s family. The family says they suspect that their son was murdered for his sexual orientation. VIDEO: Omphemetse Moleme family wants closure after son’s death: