United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has called for a coordinated response to the coronavirus pandemic. He says developed economies should support struggling countries, prioritising Africa at large. South Africa has the highest number of infections in the continent, as cases have risen to 1170. In the video below, SABC News looks at the timeline of the virus in South Africa:  One person has died from the disease – down from the earlier figure of two fatalities. The other death is suspected to be as a result of other health issues and not coronavirus as earlier reported. Guterres has also called for a global ceasefire in conflict zones and has launched a two billion dollar coordinated global humanitarian response plan for vulnerable countries. The UN Chief has reiterated that solidarity is essential. “This is a moment in which the role of the UN is to tell the world that solidarity, at the present moment, means massive support of the developed countries to the developing countries. This two billion dollars are only to the extremely vulnerable stations. It is to allow for the UN agencies to be able to provide support to refugees, to people in those situation where we already have humanitarian situation because of conflict. So, we have appealed for the two billion in relation to those very vulnerable situations.” In the video below, Guterres speaks to SABC News:  In the video below, an inter-ministerial committee briefs the nation on the back of Day 1 of the national lock-down:  Meanwhile, Defence Minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula says she has noted a lack of social distancing in areas in Gauteng she has visited on the first day of the coronavirus lockdown. She says the army has been supporting police in enforcing the national lockdown. She has confirmed the eventual deployment of troops in Alexandra where large numbers of people appear to have defied the lockdown. Minister Mapisa-Nqakula says a number of people have been arrested across the country – but only the police are making arrests. “I’m aware that there are people who have been arrested, but could I also say that we are not enforcers. We don’t have the arresting powers. We are not enforcers. I know that I received messages which were now saying how many people you have arrested. We don’t arrest. We simply give support whenever a need arises.” 