The African National Congress (ANC) and Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP) have started high level talks to bring about reconciliation between the two parties with historically strained relations. Former IFP leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi and ANC President Cyril Ramaphosa – recently met to discuss relations between the two parties. Some local issues, however, are threatening the progress that has been made so far. Vusi Makhosini reports. Two decades after bloody political violence between the ANC and IFP subsided, leaders of the two parties have decided to bury the hatched and build unity among their members and supporters. Relations between the two parties broke down in early 1980’s after they differed on the strategy to fight apartheid. This was followed by bloody clashes in KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng. The political violence also left scores of people disabled, orphaned or widowed. Now the two parties have started talks to mend their historically strained relations. In the 90’s the late President Nelson Mandela and Buthelezi initiated reconciliation efforts between the two parties. However, the talks collapsed. During the last IFP conference Buthelezi re-iterated that his biggest wish is for the ANC and the IFP to reconcile. Finally, the reconciliation talks between the two parties have started. ANC’s KwaZulu-Natal Provincial Secretary Mdumiseni Ntuli says:”If you look at IFP and ANC we basically represents the same type of constituents, black people in general, Africans in particular but of course who in terms of the economic status are at the bottom of the socio-economic status of our country. So the discussions have been there at the early nineties and got disrupted and now we have resuscitated them the discussions.” “The primary objective of the discussions is to say to the IFP that we represent a common agenda, so we thought lets resuscitate the conversations. Because the difficulties are facing today as a country are of such a nature that we are not going to make qualitative process if the oppressed remains divided.” The decision by the IFP to pull out from supporting the DA in the City of Johannesburg was a start for the ANC and IFP to cement their relations. In return, the ANC has promised to back down from wanting to topple the IFP governed municipalities in KwaZulu-Natal. However, ANC leaders are facing resistance from one of its regions. Party leaders of the ANC’s Mzala Nxumalo region at Vryheid want to wrestle control of the municipality from the IFP. The IFP is viewing this as a betrayal. IFP NEC member Thulasizwe Buthelezi says:”To us the ANC in KwaZulu-Natal is an untrustworthy partner because in the City of Johannesburg as the IFP we have enabled the ANC to govern through our votes.” Another contentious issue is the name of the ANC region – Mzala Nxumalo. The IFP wants it changed as one of the conditions of the negotiations. The party says the late ANC activist Mzala Nxumalo wrote a defamatory book about the former IFP leader titled “Chief with a Double Agenda”. “To us Mzala Nxumalo who wrote a vitriolic book insulting our founder and insulting the IFP, to us it shows that the ANC is not really committed to reconciliation and in fact wants us to return back to the days of conflict.” ANC leaders from the Mzala Nxumalo region seems to be against a name change. However, party provincial Secretary – Mdumiseni Ntuli – says they will engage the IFP on the matter. Political analyst Precious Lugayeni – says any discussions between the two parties must be truthful and should involve the victims of the violence.