Relatives of the victims of the bus crash that happened near Centane in the Eastern Cape will be transported to Butterworth free of charge on Tuesday by the company that owns the bus. Twenty-five people including the bus driver were killed and 61 others injured when the bus plunged down a ravine on Monday.   A spokesperson for AB 350 Company, Manelisi Siguqa, says the bus will leave Cebe on Tuesday morning. “It will proceed to pick up relatives of the deceased at Ncedisizwe, Lusisi, Thafalofefe to the forensic pathology hall where the post mortems will be conducted. Support services will also be provided by the Department of Transport, Department of Health, Road Accident Fund (RAF), South African Police Service (SAPS) and AB 350 support services. The belongings of the deceased will also be available for identification,” adds Siguqa. President Ramaphosa deeply saddened by Centane tragedy President Cyril Ramaphosa has expressed his profound sadness and concern at the horrific bus crash that claimed at least 25 lives – most of them pensioners and young learners. “This tragedy leaves our country deeply saddened and forces us to focus yet again on the need for transport providers and other road users to exercise care and consideration on our roads. “We must take care of one another as compatriots and, from this incident we see the need for us to be especially considerate towards elderly persons and children who depend on others to be conveyed around communities and the country.” “Safer roads begin with safer attitudes and behaviour. This tragedy is sadly yet another wake-up call to all of us to ensure that we arrive alive and those who are entrusted to our care arrive alive.” The President has directed Minister of Transport Fikile Mbalula and the Provincial Government of the Eastern Cape to reach out to affected families and provide the necessary assistance, as well as to establish the factors that led to this tragedy. Minister Mbalula says his department is committed to expediting an investigation and ensure that it is concluded speedily and that commitment extends to strengthening measures aimed at ensuring the safety of people on the roads.   In the video below, Minister Mbalula reacts to news of the Centane bus crash:  Video: Eastern Cape bus crash death toll climbs to 25:  There has been shock and horror as the death toll from the Eastern Cape bus crash climbs to 25. The bus company says it will use all resources available to investigate the exact cause of the crash. Limpopo road crashes claim 17 lives: Meanwhile, 17 people have died in three separate road crashes in Limpopo this past weekend. In the latest incident, seven people died on Sunday night when a vehicle collided with a truck on the N1 in Musina. In another incident, five others were burnt beyond recognition during a head-on collision involving two light vehicles on the N1 near Mokopane on Friday afternoon. Limpopo Transport Spokesperson, Joel Seabi says the remaining five died on the R25 outside Moutse. “The loss of 17 lives out of only 3 accidents that occurred in just one weekend is quite horrible and tragic to this effect. MEC Masemola sends his heartfelt condolences to the affected families. Two of these accidents happened on the N1 and one on the R25 area of Moutse.”