As the country counts down to the national lockdown on Thursday, ministers of the Justice, Crime Prevention and Security Cluster have once again urged the public to adhere to new regulations. On Monday night, President Cyril Ramaphosa announced that the country would be on a 21 days national lockdown from midnight as the country tries to mitigate the spread of COVID-19. In the video below, President Ramaphosa addresses the nation on Coronavirus  During the lockdown, people will be confined to their homes unless they are performing an essential services. Movements will be allowed for people collecting a social grant or seeking medical help or collecting chronic medication. Different ministers have since informed the nation about government measures that will be put in place during the lockdown. According to the government, only essential services will be allowed during this lockdown.   Below are some of the things you will be permitted to do and things you will be not be allowed to do during the 21 days lockdown period. Public Transport Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula says public transport would only be available from 5am and 9am, and 4pm and 8pm. However, the minister has emphasised that buses and trains will not be allowed to transport people. He has added that taxis would be allowed to ferry essential services workers and consumers to shops, but under strict and control measures that observe social distancing to limit the spread of the deadly coronavirus. In the video below, Minister Mbalula shares transport guidelines  Uber, Bolt and metered taxis would also be allowed to operate, under under strict and control measures as well. Workers who have been categorised as essential services will be allowed to travel in private vehicles under strict measures. These measure include that a vehicle certified to carry four passengers will be allowed to carry one person only, while a vehicle licensed to carry up to 8 passengers will only be permitted to load a maximum of 3 passengers.   Services offered by the department of transport, like driver’s licence applications and renewals, have also been put on hold. Motorists would not be penalised if their driving licenses expires during the 21 days lockdown period. Policing Police Minister Bheki Cele has once again reiterated that pet walking and the selling of alcohol will not be allowed during the lockdown period. Cele says individuals found to be breaking these laws may be subjected to six years in jail or a fine. “Equally, the movement of liquor between any two points is also strictly prohibited as per the Covid-19 Disaster Management Regulations,” says the minister. In the video below, Minister Bheki Cele says police will be on alert  He has warned the public against defying these new regulations. Cele says people should not use this lockdown period to host braais. “Therefore, anyone found to be in contravention of the regulations, shall be found guilty and on conviction, will be liable to a fine, or imprisonment for a period not exceeding six months, or both,” Cele adds. Traffic officials, South African Police Service (SAPS) officials and members of the South African Defence Force (SANDF) will conduct roadblocks as of midnight. “Metro Police Departments as well as other law enforcement agencies will form part of these joint operations that will be conducted for the duration of the lockdown. Operations, especially roadblocks, will be conducted at sector policing level within communities and residential areas, on provincial and national roads. This will ensure that the movement of people and vehicles is kept to the minimum, with the exception of the transportation of essential good and/or services which include fire and medical emergency services,” explains the minister. Cele says the number of people allowed to attend funerals has been reduced to 50 and might even be scaled further down in the coming days. However, no night vigils will be permitted. Buying of essentials Shops will be opened for food and medication. No restaurants or fast-food outlet will be operational and also no clothing stores will be allowed to operate.   All businesses will be closed except for those involved in the manufacture of essential goods, or the supply or provision of an essential service. Government has advised that people should buy their essential goods from their nearest outlets, including at their nearest spaza shops. However, the government has again warned the public against panic buying. In the video below, Minister Ronald Lamola speaks about security measures for COVID-19 