The official opposition in Limpopo, the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF), has welcomed the provincial cabinet reshuffle by Premier Stan Mathabatha. Mathabatha has fired Public Works MEC Monica Mochadi. She has been replaced by Dickson Masemola who has been moved from Transport. Masemola’s position was filled by speaker of the legislature, Mavhungu Lerule-Ramakhanya. EFF leader, Jossey Buthane says Mochadi was failing the Public Works department. “It doesn’t make sense on the Speaker and the MEC for Safety and Security but it does make a lot of sense on Public works, there was actually nobody there, it was the department on auto pilot. We welcome the change on the MEC of Public works. It was a mess, it was worse. Well, Dickson Masemola is not much of a hard worker. He is a populist but we just hope he’ll use that populism on a correct platform and give our people roads.” DA slams Mathabatha The Democratic Alliance (DA) in Limpopo has criticised Mathabatha for effecting a cabinet change when the country is faced with the Coronavirus pandemic. DA leader Jacque Smalle has described the changes as bad timing by the Premier. He says, “I think it came out at a worst time this time. We would like to see the Premier give assurances to the people of Limpopo to make sure that we support national government and the President, and making sure that we all get through this. What he has done has created some sort of instability within leadership. We’re concerned of the reshuffling, it’s bad timing.” Acceleration of services The African Nation Congress (ANC) Spokesperson in Limpopo, Donald Selamolela says the Premier has to ensure the acceleration of services. Selamolela says, “As the ANC in Limpopo we welcome the decision of the Premier to re-arrange the provincial executive council. It’s the prerogative of the Premier of the province to make those changes and we know that he has made those changes in the best interest of service delivery and ensuring that we live up to the mandate that our people have accorded to us during the elections.” “We want the government that will be responsive we want the government that will ensure that at all times there’s no delay in terms of decision making,” He adds. Phophi Ramathuba In February, the Young Nurses Indaba Trade Union (YNITU) called on  Limpopo on health MEC Dr. Phophi Ramathuba to step down saying she’s “incompetent” and “causing havoc in Limpopo provincial health”. Nursing unions say they are concerned by staff shortages, crumbling healthcare infrastructure and more, but the Limpopo Department of Health maintains that there is no crisis in the province. The Department has labelled the calls for the removal of the MEC by YNITU as “unfortunate and irresponsible”, saying the organisation is using the MEC as political leverage to gain legitimacy and visibility in Limpopo. In the video below, Dr. Phophi Ramathuba speaks to FullView: In July 2019, National Education, Health and Allied Workers’ Union (Nehawu) in Limpopo called for the sacking of Health MEC Dr. Phophi Ramathuba. The trade union marched to four departments, raising concern about issues affecting their members. In the video below, SABC reporter Mike Maringa speaks to Mike Shikwambaba: