Scores of mourners including learners from local schools and government officials gathered at the home Sunday morning at Ga-Phasha village, outside Burgersfort in Limpopo, for the funeral of four children who were allegedly murdered by their father. The bodies of the siblings, aged between 3 and 9 years were found with multiple injuries in the bushes around the area. Lucas Phasha is accused of the brutal murder of 9-year-old Katlego, 7-year-old Joyce, 5-year old Tshepo aged and Adel Phasha aged 3. 50-year-old Lucas Phasha has been remanded in custody after appearing at the Mecklenberg Magistrate’s Court last week. Phasha is accused of the brutal murder of 9-year-old Katlego, 7-year-old Joyce, 5-year-old Tshepo and Adel Phasha aged 3. The children were allegedly stabbed with sharp objects including roofing nails.  The family received an outpouring of support from the community at large, government and businesses following the killings. The murder case against Phasha goes back to court on May 28. In the audio below Police spokesperson Motlafela Mojapelo comments on the arrest of a 50-year-old man who allegedly killed his children.  Crimes against women and children Meanwhile, Police Minister Bheki Cele says the government has to take on an urgent review of the country’s laws regarding crimes against women and children. He was speaking at the funeral service for murdered eight-year-old Tazne Van Wyk at Elsies River on the Cape Flats on Saturday. Van Wyk’s body was found in a stormwater drain in Worcester in the Boland last week. Van Wyk’s body was found in a stormwater drain in Worcester in the Boland last week. The murder suspect was previously released on parole on 11 counts, including murder. Cele said government needs to carefully look at South African laws, as they are in some instances very weak. “If we have done proper things as the government, as the criminal justice system, this child would be still jumping and playing but instead here she lies. It does give us the opportunity of introspection as the government, it does give us the opportunity to say you go back and correct things that you have done wrong, and we, I agree we have failed this child as government, as a people we have failed this child.” In the video below the funeral service of murdered 8-year-old, Tazne Van Wyk was held in Cape Town  Emaan Solomon Cele has also met with the family of a young girl who was killed in gangster crossfire at Ocean View in Cape Town earlier this week. Emaan Solomon was shot and killed while she was playing in front of her home on Tuesday in a shooting between rival gangs in the area.  She was laid to rest on Thursday according to Muslim rites. Two suspects arrested in connection with her death appeared in court on Friday. 