The African National Congress (ANC) has welcomed the government’s comprehensive measures in an attempt to curb the spread and further infections of the coronavirus. ANC’s secretary general Ace Magashule has called for unity in combating the global outbreak. Meanwhile Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP) Spokesperson Mkhuleko Hlengwa says President Cyril Ramaphosa responded positively to people’s expectations. He says it is now the matter of every South Africa to be responsible and maintain hygienic lifestyle. In this video , ANC, IFP react on SA’s COVID-19 preventative measures:  Also the  Democratic Alliance (DA) welcomed President Ramaphosa’s decision to declare a National State of Disaster with regards to the now internal transmission of COVID-19, including a number of drastic contingency measures to inhibit the spread of the virus and ensure the safety of each and every South African. The DA-led Western Cape government says they are ready to address the national emergency, and will work in full cooperation with national government in the interests of the country and its citizens. Earlier President Ramaphosa announced a raft of measures to try and contain the spread of the coronavirus (COVID-19)  in South Africa, including a national state of disaster. Addressing the nation on Sunday, he said this will help in combatting the spread of the virus. Ramaphosa says the cabinet has decided to enforce travel bans on foreign nationals from high-risk countries such as Italy, Iran, Spain, South Korea, the United States, United Kingdom, Germany and China. This ban is effective from 18 March 2020. President Cyril Ramaphosa’s Nation address on coronavirus:  South Africa has 61 confirmed cases as of the COVID-19 which broke out in China in November 2019. The virus has since spread to different countries globally. Ramaphosa also announced that South African citizens that have visited high-risk countries in the last 20 days will undergo heavy testing and will be required to self-isolate for 20 days. He further urged South Africans to limit contact with high-risk countries.