The Democratic Alliance (DA) in the Free State has accused the department of Health in the province of failing to be proactive in response to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. There was a reported case of coronavirus in the province that was later rescinded. The DA’s MPL, Mariette Pittaway says the department should identify more health institutions that will treat and isolate COVID-19 patients. Pittaway says this is important as we head towards the flu and cold season. “My concern is that the department of health in the Free State identified one hospital for people without medical aid and that is the Pelonomi isolation ward. There are only 39 beds. They really should start identifying other hospitals and getting them ready as well. But the big concern is that I am a member of the provincial legislature and I’m sitting at the portfolio of health and up until now, the department has not shared any information with me. There’s no outreach programme from the department of health or the department of education in the Free State that I am aware of.” Precautionary measures The Western Cape Provincial Legislature is expected to debate the impact of the coronavirus outbreak on Friday. Speaker of the provincial parliament, Masizole Mnqasela says the exercise is meant to enlighten members of the public about the urgency of the pandemic. 14 cases of the virus have been confirmed in the Western Cape, all of them with recent travel history abroad.  Mnqasela says it is crucial that all parties work together to educate the public about the virus. “I think in the main it acts on the contestation and bigger awareness, but also allowing government to communicate broadly and share with the honourable members who are the people’s representatives to communicate clearly in augmenting the message of the state.” The Northern Cape Health Department says they are taking extra precautionary measures for people living in informal settlements with regards to self-isolation, should the coronavirus hit the province. Northern Cape Health MEC Mase Manopole says they are continuously meeting with the Health Minister Zweli Mkhize to share ideas to prevent an outbreak. “We have taken into consideration that the team will also this afternoon sit and identify the areas where we can utilise buildings. For example, the old school that can be utilized and then we put some system in place to our poorest areas, to help them and isolate them so if there’s a need for us to put measures in place.” – Additional reporting by Mlamli Maneli and Reginald Witbooi. In the video below, Cabinet Ministers meet to discuss ways to intensify the battle against coronavirus in South Africa following 51 confirmed cases. 