Zimbabwe has confirmed its second case of the coronavirus (COVID-19). The man from Harare had recently travelled to New York in the US. On Saturday, Zimbabwe reported its first confirmed case of the novel coronavirus. The 38-year-old from Victoria Falls had travelled to the United Kingdom earlier in March. Zimbabwe’s Health Minister, Obadiah Moyo, says the man returned to Zimbabwe through South Africa and started feeling ill. Moyo says the patient is recovering well at home. The Health Ministry also noted that there were pending cases. Notably, a 25-year-old has recently travelled to Rwanda, where there are reports of local transmissions. The ministry has urged citizens to abide by the preventative measures to curb a full outbreak in the country. In this video, Zimbabwe’s President Emmerson Mnangagwa says the country will take measures against coronavirus:  Meanwhile, there is mounting criticism against President Emmerson Mnangagwa’s decision to attend the inauguration of Namibian President Hage Geingob. The opposition MDC believes the decision lacks leadership and is a waste of money. Party Spokesperson, Nkululeko Sibanda, says the President’s action creates scepticism on whether government is responding adequately to COVID19. Meanwhile, travellers entering the country from Zimbabwe through the Beitbridge Border Post, outside Musina in Limpopo, say they are happy about the screening for coronavirus and other diseases. Six smaller border posts between South Africa, Botswana and Zimbabwe are closed in Limpopo. Travellers are now using only Groblersbrug to Botswana and Beitbridge to Zimbabwe. They say at the Zimbabwean side of the border, they were also given disinfectants, soap and water. SABC News’ Jayde-Leigh Paulse visits Kosi Bay in the Eastern Cape, which is the border control gate between South Africa and Mozambique in light of the coronavirus: <span style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" data-mce-type="bookmark" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span>