Health Minister in the Western Cape, NomaFrench Mbombo will commemorate World TB Day on Tuesday by embarking on a coronavirus awareness campaign. Mobombo will visit the Khayelitsha taxi rank to hand out information pamphlets on coronavirus and about tuberculosis (TB). Ministerial spokesperson Nomawethu Sbukwana says Mbombo wants to inform people about being pro-active against the virus. She will also hand out soap and tissue paper. CORONAVIRUS To date six African countries have reported cases of infection MOROCCO SENEGAL NIGERIA TUNISIA ALGERIA EGYPT sabcnews.com | @sabcnewsonline | #sabcnews 17 February 14 February 28 February 2 March 2 March 1 March *Graphic includes Flag, ﻿Name of country and date of first reported case (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); SA on Lockdown President Cyril Ramaphosa on Monday said the nationwide lockdown which comes into effect from midnight on Thursday will be accompanied by a public health management programme to battle the coronavirus. The President made the announcement in an address to the nation. He says the health management programme will involve an increase in coronavirus screening, testing, contact tracing and medical management. Various professional categories including health and emergency workers, those in the security sector such as the police and army and workers linked to banks, supermarkets and pharmacies are exempted from the lockdown. The army will assist the police. The national infection rate currently stands at 402. President Ramaphosa says it’s important to move fast.  Authorities have urged the public to avoid close contact with people infected with the corona virus as the country tries to slow the spread of the virus. Government has urged all those who have visited high risk countries in the past 14 days to test for the coronavirus. People should use hand sanitiser with an alcohol content of 60% or more to slow the spread of the coronavirus. Constant sanitising of hands with such a sanitiser or water and soap is essential in fighting the coronavirus.  For more information on the coronavirus, call the 24-hour hotline on 0800 029 999. For more updates on the coronavirus in South Africa and worldwide, add the official government Covid-19 support service on WhatsApp on 0600 123 456. 