The government has reiterated that it is ready to deal with any possible outbreak of the coronavirus in the country. Ahead of the debate on the disease on Thursday in the National Assembly, Health Minister Zweli Mkhize told Parliament’s Portfolio Committee on Health that South Africa will be up to the task, should the country face an outbreak of the virus. “I think it is important that we send a strong message that there are no people who are infected, but of course, if there are people who are infected, we will be able to treat them. Our level of readiness is that we can treat any patient that can land in this country and we have every province ready to treat such people. We have upped the game in the major ports with a screening, (and) protective clothing for the staff.” In the video below, Minister Zweli Mkhize says South Africa is taking necessary precautions in major ports of the country to ensure that people who enter the country are cleared of the virus:  Partnership The Health Department says it has joined hands with private medical practitioners and others in preparation for any outbreak of the coronavirus in the country. Acting Director-General Anbany Pillay says the partnership includes training on the practical use of laboratories. “The private sector is very much on board. We have been doing training with General Practitioners as well as private hospitals so that we agree (on) how are we going to manage when there is a shortage of something and then we see how we assist each other, etcetera. As well as laboratories, so that we can get information from each other, for example. So, at this stage, it’s only the NICD (National Institute for Communicable Diseases) that can perform the COVID-19 test.” Mkhize has criticised the growing problem of what he says is “fake news” regarding the coronavirus. He says there has been a worrying trend of misleading incorrect information on social media about the alleged presence of the virus in the country. He has called on all public representatives, including Members of Parliament to take a stand in support of the truth. The graphic below shows confirmed cases of coronavirus in Africa:   Loading… (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));