Nedbank has confirmed some of its Durban-based staff members are currently under self-quarantine and are being tested for the coronavirus. The bank says that one of its employees was part of a group of South Africans who arrived back from Italy on March 1st. It is believed to be the same group that South Africa’s first positive coronavirus case emerged from. In a statement, Nedbank says that staff that came into contact with the potentially affected employee are also in self quarantine. They will be tested before they are cleared to return to work. The bank says it has also deep cleaned the office spaces that the employee in question came into contact with. Nedbank has confirmed that this person has not had any contact with any of its clients. Health Minister Zweli Mkhize earlier confirmed that the Gauteng woman who tested positive for the virus was also part of the group. The 39-year-old woman has been admitted to the Charlotte Maxeke Academic Hospital in Johannesburg. In the video below,Gauteng Health MEC Bandile Masuku sheds light on SA’s second case:  Charlotte Maxeke Academic Hospital is one of three dedicated facilities in Gauteng for the treatment and isolation of conronavirus cases. In the video below, Health Minister Mkhize gives update on coronavirus:  In another coronavirus related story, residents of Thaba Nchu in the Free State have mixed reactions following rumours that their town has been identified as a possible coronavirus quarantine site for the 184 South Africans who will be repatriated from China later this month. Some residents have expressed concern while others feel that they must come home. “I’m not feeling for those people who come from China to camp in Thaba Nchu because there’s no evidence to say it’s going to be a government place or in a private place, which means they are going to make some money for that person who’s going to accept people from China. I’m not already accepting that question. I’m sorry we can’t,” says one resident. “I think it is appropriate for the Thaba Nchu residents to come here and reside wherever they are going to camp because after all they belong here, and they are South Africans. So, why do we have to like abandon them and make them feel like they are outsiders and everything? I feel like they should come here and reside somewhere. They should be kept and be cured, I think so,” says another.