Different stakeholders will be watching with keen interest when Gauteng Finance MEC, Nomantu Nkomo-Ralehoko, presents the Provincial Budget for the 2020/21 financial year to the Legislature in Johannesburg on Thursday. The MEC will announce budget allocations for various departments to fund government’s priorities including health and education. This follows last week’s State of the Province Address (SOPA) by Premier David Makhura,  where he outlined his government’s priorities and plan of action. Health and Education have, in previous years, enjoyed the lion’s share of the budget in Gauteng and that trend seems certain to continue.  NGO Section 27 says it is interested to find out how much funds will be channelled towards the implementation of the National Health Insurance (NHI). Section 27 Spokesperson, Ntsiki Mpulo, says this as government has said Gauteng will be the leading province in the roll out of NHI. “We would like to see given that the Minister of Finance has said that NHI will be rolled out over a longer period what the province plans to do, because the things that need to be fixed in order to make NHI work are still problematic in the province. We still have hospital infrastructure falling down, shortages of nurses and doctors, so we want to see how the money is going to be redeployed to make sure that we’re able to be ready for NHI,” says Mpulo. Mpulo says Section 27 will also be monitoring whether there’ll be increased funding for mental health as government has committed in its recovery plan after the Life Esidimeni tragedy. General Manager for Central Gauteng Mental Health Society, Bengu Shongwe, says despite the Life Esidimeni saga – government hasn’t done enough to fund mental health. “We’re incurring lots of expenses caring for one resident or service user. What we’re getting is just a drop in the ocean. It’s very difficult to provide a proper service to a mental healthcare user. So there must be an increase. We need professionals to look after our people but we cannot attract or retain them, we cannot afford them. With the current funding, it’s important for us to meet that need,” says Shongwe. Meanwhile, the National Association of Parents in School Governance says government also needs to increase funding for school infrastructure. The association’s President Mahlomola Kekana says while they are encouraged by Premier Makhura’s promises of infrastructure upgrades in all public schools, the question is will the necessary funds be allocated to fulfill that commitment. “The MEC of Finance should speak largely on the issue of infrastructure upgrades in all public schools. Premier spoke largely on resuscitating school sport but we don’t have the facilities. We’d like the MEC to speak largely on allocation that will seek to recreational and sporting facilities in our schools. We want the MEC of finance to speak largely on adequate budgeting that will address school safety and protecting both learners and educators in our schools,” says Kekana.  