A Solidarity Fund has been established to help track the spread of the coronavirus, care for the ill and support those whose lives have been disrupted. President Cyril Ramaphosa made the announcement in an address to the nation last night. He also announced a three week lockdown starting at midnight on Thursday. The army will assist the police. Ramaphosa says businesses, organisations and individuals are urged to contribute to the fund which will complement government efforts to fight the COVID-19 pandemic. The fund is to be chaired by prominent businesswoman Gloria Serobe and lead by a board of eminent persons. “Government is providing seed capital of R150 million and the private sector has already pledged to support this fund with financial contributions in the coming period. We will be spending money to save lives and to support the economy.” “In this regard, we must applaud the commitment made in this time of crisis by the Rupert and Oppenheimer families of R1 billion each to assist small businesses and their employees affected by the coronavirus pandemic,” explains Ramaphosa. In the video below, President Ramaphosa explains how the Solidarity Fund will work  SA under national lockdown for 21 days President Cyril Ramaphosa has announced a national lockdown for 21 days. Addressing South Africans on government’s measures to curb the spread of coronavirus, Ramaphosa says the lockdown will start on midnight Thursday, 26 March till 16 April. In the video below, President Ramaphosa addresses the nation on coronavirus  The infographic looks at five economic measures during the lockdown:  CORONAVIRUS | 21-DAY LOCKDOWN sabcnews.com |  SABC News channel | SABC Radio news 5 economic measures  Disability and elderly grants  to be paid earlier  Tax incentives for over 4 million private sector workers  Distressed SMMEs to receive up to R500-million  Over R3-billion to fast-track funding for vulnerable industrial businesses  Solidarity Response Fund established.   To donate go to: www.solidarityfund.co.za   (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));   