Gauteng Economic Development, Agriculture and Environment MEC Morakane Mosupyoe says she’s satisfied with the measures major supermarkets have put in place to ensure that social distancing takes place inside them. Mosupyoe visited shopping malls in northern Pretoria, including Soshanguve, Mabopane and Hamanskraal. Many retailers in these areas experienced high volumes of shoppers on Friday, with little practice of social distancing taking place despite the lockdown having been effected in a bid to curb the spread of COVID-19. “The plan that they have come up with is very impressive. What they are doing outside, managing the traffic outside both pedestrian and vehicular, managing people who go to the parking lots, who go into the stores and the separation of people in queues is very impressive. Their plan compared to what happened yesterday is very impressive and they managed to do that within 24 hours,” says Mosupyoe. The MEC says although the retailers have put in place these measures, long queues outside the stores were concerning as there was no social distancing in place. “Social distancing outside is still a problem, but well talk to people, but that’s why we rely on you the media to get the message out, please get the message out, help us get the message out. People must observe social distancing,” pleads Mosupyoe. Shoppers expressed their different views on these measures. “It’s problematic, we’ve been here since 09:30am, it’s now 11:00am; we’ve been waiting, nothing is happening, the queue is not moving but we are seeing police are trying to help out.” “We have older people here, most of them are here for medication, and some have various illnesses, imagine waiting for so long, the centre must perhaps prioritise them.” “The centre should allow at least 200 people at a time, and they must start with the elderly first,” some shoppers say. In this video below, is an interview on the socio-economic impact of the COVID-19:  Patrollers deployed Guateng MEC for Community Safety Faith Mazibuko has meanwhile deployed community patrollers to assist with the managing of queues at shopping areas. They will also assist at social grants pay points. The MEC says the move seeks to ensure compliance with the National Disaster Regulations. The patrollers will be issued with Essential Services Permits. In the video below, Alexandra residents still walking on the streets despite lockdown:  