The Eastern Cape Transport and Health departments are giving contradicting death tolls for the bus accident that happened in Centane on Monday. The Department of Transport maintains 25 deaths while the Department of Health has put the figure at 24. 60 passengers were seriously injured and the death toll is expected to rise. The families of the deceased will identify their loved ones at the Health Department’s forensic facility in Butterworth on Tuesday. The department will also avail psychological services to families, survivors and affected members of the community by the accident. Video: Eastern Cape bus crash death toll climbs to 25:  The bus company says it will use all resources available to investigate the exact cause of the crash. President Ramaphosa saddened by Centane tragedy President Cyril Ramaphosa has expressed his profound sadness and concern at the horrific bus crash that claimed lives – most of them pensioners and young learners. “This tragedy leaves our country deeply saddened and forces us to focus yet again on the need for transport providers and other road users to exercise care and consideration on our roads. “We must take care of one another as compatriots and, from this incident we see the need for us to be especially considerate towards elderly persons and children who depend on others to be conveyed around communities and the country,” President Ramaphosa says. “Safer roads begin with safer attitudes and behaviour. This tragedy is sadly yet another wake-up call to all of us to ensure that we arrive alive and those who are entrusted to our care arrive alive.” ‘Assistance’ The President has directed Minister of Transport Fikile Mbalula and the Provincial Government of the Eastern Cape to reach out to affected families and provide the necessary assistance, as well as to establish the factors that led to this tragedy. Minister Mbalula says his department is committed to expediting an investigation and ensure that it is concluded speedily and that commitment extends to strengthening measures aimed at ensuring the safety of people on the roads. In the video below, Minister Mbalula reacts to news of the Centane bus crash:   Limpopo road crashes claim 17 lives Meanwhile, 17 people have died in three separate road crashes in Limpopo this past weekend. In the latest incident, seven people died on Sunday night when a vehicle collided with a truck on the N1 in Musina. In another incident, five others were burnt beyond recognition during a head-on collision involving two light vehicles on the N1 near Mokopane on Friday afternoon. Limpopo Transport Spokesperson, Joel Seabi says the remaining five died on the R25 outside Moutse. “The loss of 17 lives out of only 3 accidents that occurred in just one weekend is quite horrible and tragic to this effect. MEC Masemola sends his heartfelt condolences to the affected families. Two of these accidents happened on the N1 and one on the R25 area of Moutse.”