President Cyril Ramaphosa has called on security forces to act within the law at all times. There have been reports of alleged brutality by some South African National Defence Force (SANDF) members who have been deployed to support police to manage the nationwide lockdown. An Ekurhuleni Metro Police officer has also been arrested in Gauteng in connection with the alleged fatal shooting of a man at Vosloorus township, east of Johannesburg. Three people have now died of the virus in the country while the number of cases has risen to 1326. Addressing the nation last night, Ramaphosa cautioned security forces against harming South Africans and instead ensure their safety. “We have made it clear that the task of our security personnel is to support, to reassure and to comfort our people and to ensure that peace and order is maintained in our country. They know that they must act within the law at all times and that they must not cause harm to any of our people in any way whatsoever,” He adds. In the video below, President Cyril Ramaphosa addressed the nation: SAPS concerned The South African Police Service says it is concerned about videos going viral of officers allegedly using excessive force on people who contravening the lockdown regulations. National Police Spokesperson Vish Naidoo says although they still need to verify the aunthenticity of these videos, the alleged behaviour is unacceptable and cannot be tolerated or condoned. “We have impressed upon our members on the ground to act within the confines of the law; in enforcing the disaster management regulations. The regulations clearly outlines the actions that security forces may enforce or impose on the alleged transgressors and the depiction in the circulation of the videos is definitely not one of the actions as outlined in the disaster management regulations,” says Naidoo. INFOGRAPHIC: How citizens can report security forces  Masina calls for calm Ekurhuleni Mayor Mzwandile Masina has called for calm in Vosloorus on the West Rand following the fatal shooting of a resident as his home on Monday. It is alleged that a scuffle ensued after EMPD officers tried to arrest people who were drinking liquor at a local tavern, flouting the lockdown regulations. An Ekurhuleni Metro Police officer and a 45-year-old civilian have been arrested in connection with the shooting. Mayoral Spokesperson Phakamile Mbengashe, says, “The Executive Mayor of the City of Ekurhuleni, Cllr Mzwandile Masina has today called for calm in the city following the fatal shooting of a civilian in Vosloorus on Sunday, 29 March 2020. The South African Police Service and the Independent Police Investigative Directorate are currently investigating the matter.”  