Hundreds of residents of Alexandra, north of Johannesburg, are being tested for the coronavirus. This after a confirmed case in the sprawling township. At least 9 others are in isolation. The Gauteng government is rolling out a mass testing drive in the province, hoping to contain the infection rate. In the vulnerable community that is living in a densely-packed informal settlement with many socio-economic issues, elderly people in the community have become anxious following the confirmation of the confirmed coronavirus case. “I’m scared. I don’t know what’s going to happen. People are not listening, they still going out the children still playing on the streets,” says pensioner, Nthombifuthi. To prevent an outbreak in the area, a Gauteng Premier David Makhura is conducting a mass testing drive in Alex. Gauteng Health MEC Dr Bandile Masuku says 69 testing sites have been identified in Johannesburg and vulnerable areas are targeted. In the video below, Alex residents talk about the ongoing testing in the area:  Alex defiant over lockdown The police and the army have been moving through different sections of the Alexandra Township, north of Johannesburg, urging residents to stay in their homes. The majority of residents in Alexandra have been largely defiant on the first day of the 21-day lockdown aimed at curbing the spread of the coronavirus which has since claimed one life. In the video below, SABC News reporter Maageketla Mohlabe, gives update on Alexandra Township on the 21-day lockdown:  During Johannesburg Mayor Geoff Makhubo’s walkabout in Setshwetla on Friday afternoon, community members complained of their poor hygiene conditions, which include communal toilets and the lack of sanitizers. Makhubo says while he appreciates their poor living conditions, it’s in everyone’s interest that they also stay indoors. “As we leave, we’re going to leave it to the police and the army to now restore law and order here. I mean, I can see they got into their houses and they’re back out again. So, we have to keep on reminding them that they must stay in their homes.” “That’s why we asked the SANDF to say look, ‘let’s get in.’ We’ve been with them. We’ve been with the Metro. There’s provincial police, there are SAPS. So, everyone is here. They’re going to enforce now.”