The African National Congress’ (ANC) Nomi Nkondlo says the budget doesn’t specify how poor people living in townships and on the Cape Flats will benefit. The ANC was one of the opposition parties in the Western Cape legislature which has voiced disappointment at the provincial budget by MEC of Finance David Maynier. Maynier presented an estimated R224 billion budget to be spent over the medium term, with the biggest allocation going to Health, Education and Social Development.   “One of the things we have been advocating for is townships and small-town economies. While we appreciate the increase in the crime prevention budget, we really think they need to invest in the economic infrastructure in ensuring active economic participation of people staying in the townships especially in the Cape Flats,” says ANC leader in the legislature Cameron Dugmore. Other provinces table their budgets The Mpumalanga Education and the Health Departments have received the biggest share of the provincial budget allocation. Education received R23.4 billion and Health got R15.5 billion. Finance MEC Pat Ngomane tabled the budget. “We will invest R24.3 billion to the Department of Education to improve quality of education. R15.5 billion is allocated to the Department of Health to provide quality health care systems for the people of Mpumalanga. The department’s infrastructure programme will focus on accelerating construction of the high tech hospitals while also ensuring effective maintenance of primary health care facilities in the province,” says Ngomane. Limpopo Finance MEC, Seaparo Sekwati, says more than half of the province’s budget is spent on salaries of government employees. Sekwati says the high spend on the compensation of employees must be curbed. He was delivering the province’s more than R70 billion budget at Lebowakgomo. “As Limpopo has the highest percentage of its provincial budget spent on compensation of employees at 69.8% compared to the national average of 60%. It will be essential for the provincial government to also consider appropriate mechanisms to curb the ever-increasing wage bill as announced by the Minister of Finance,” says Sekwati.  In this video, budget cuts to impact on Limpopo schools:  