South African Airways (SAA) has assured customers that it has increased health and safety procedures in the midst of the coronavirus pandemic. SAA says the procedures are in line with the World Health Organisation’s protocols to protect its customers and crew from contracting the COVID-19 while flying with SAA. All aircraft are being cleaned with disinfectants, which have been approved by the Environmental Protection Agency and are effective against the COVID-19 virus. The World Health Organisation has declared COVID-19 a pandemic. In the video below, WHO advises countries to remain prepared for possible cases:   Globally, more than 121 000 people have been infected with COVID-19 in 118 countries, and more than 4300 people have died of the virus. In South Africa, 17 cases have been confirmed so far. The graphic below shows the number of COVID-19 cases in South Africa on Thursday:  Loading… (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); Mandatory self-quarantine for travellers The Democratic Alliance (DA) has called on Health Minister Zweli Mkhize to institute a mandatory self-quarantine period of 14 days for all travellers from high-risk European countries – whether they are symptomatic or not. The party says that government needs to increase its measures to deal with the virus. The DA also says it will soon formally write to Mkhize to table its recommendation for consideration. The DA says it is concerning that the new infections recorded are from outside the initial group of 10 travellers who visited Italy and are people who have recently landed back in South Africa from certain European countries. It says it is also worrying that the details around the first recorded first local transmission case are unclear. The party is calling for self-quarantine of 14 days for travellers from high-risk European countries such as Germany, Austria, Switzerland and Dubai, saying that this will serve as a preventative strategy to ensure asymptotic travellers are not missed at the initial screening procedure and the Department of Health does not have to trace contacts of multiple travellers should they eventually present with symptoms.