The families of those who were killed in the crash in Centane will identify their loved ones at the department’s forensic facility in Butterworth on Tuesday. The Eastern Cape Health Department has revised the official death toll in Monday’s bus crash from 25 to 24 with 61 others injured. The department will also avail psychological services to families, survivors and affected members of the community by the accident which claimed the 24 lives.  Health MEC Sindiswa Gomba and Superintendent-General Thobile Mbengashe have commended all emergency services personnel and the search and rescue team from the SAPS for their prompt response to the Centane bus disaster. Survivors have blamed speeding and overloading for the crash. The bus veered off the road between Centane and Butterworth and landed in a ravine.  Local resident, Mluleki Fikile says they are traumatised following the incident… In the video below, residents are horrified after bus crash  “I think it will be highly appreciated if the government of the province as well as the local Municipality of Mnquma to gather a team of various departments of social services to come and counsel the people the tragedy and disaster that happened.” Meanwhile, President Cyril Ramaphosa has expressed his sadness and concern over the incident. The President’s spokesperson Khuselwa Diko says Ramaphosa’s thoughts and prayers are with the families of the passengers who died in the crash… “He also has directed Minister of Transport Fikile Mbalula and the Provincial Government of the Eastern Cape to reach out to affected families and provide the necessary assistance, and it is imperative to establish the factors that led to this tragedy. This tragedy leaves our country deeply saddened and forces us to focus yet again on the need for transport providers and other road users to exercise care and consideration on our roads.”  In the video below, President Cyril Ramaphosa has offered his condolences to the families of 24 people killed in a bus crash near Centane in the Eastern Cape early Monday.  