Health Minister Zweli Mkhize says that government has taken all necessary steps to ensure that the repatriation of South Africans from China will be seamless and poses minimal risk. Briefing the media in Johannesburg, on Sunday, Mkhize says measures have been put in place to ensure that the 151 South Africans that have indicated a wish to be repatriated from China will make their way into South Africa in a manner that ensures that the coronavirus is contained and will not spread. An Inter-Ministerial Committee has been set up consisting of departments of Health, Defence, Home Affairs, Justice, Social Development, International Relations and Co-operation supported by the military and the Police. These departments will work together to ensure the evacuation of South Africans from China as well as quarantine them as they make their way into the country. The return of the South Africans will happen within a period of seven to 10 days indicated Minister Zweli.  Once in the country, the South Africans will be under quarantine for a period of 21 days to ensure that they test negative for coronavirus. They will not be allowed to exit the perimeter. Mkhize highlighted that the quarantine area will not be identified to the public.  The area will be guarded by the military. The area will be declared a no-entry zone and a no-flight zone. News conference by the Inter-Ministerial Committee on coronavirus:   In the document below, Health Minister Zweli Mkhize briefs the media on evacuations of South Africans in the Chinese city of Wuhan, the epicentre of the coronavirus outbreak.   The map below shows designated hospitals to manage the possible coronavirus outbreak in South Africa  Stranded South Africans President Cyril Ramaphosa on Thursday ordered the repatriation of the South Africans from the central Chinese city, the epicentre of the coronavirus outbreak. Kellina Maduray, a final year medical student in the Chinese city of Shandong says she has not left her campus since the beginning of February. “In order to limit the spread of the virus, universities have restricted the students from leaving campuses. From the beginning of February, I have not left my campus. My university has been very proactive in taking steps to prevent the disease from spreading. We get our temperatures tested every day like clockwork, and are provided with the face masks which are supplied by the university. The preventative measures being taken are limiting the spread. It is important to stay alert and not anxious, as well as to understand that we all play an important role in preventing this virus from spreading.”  SA’s state of readiness The World Health Organisation (WHO) says South Africa is well-resourced to cope with any outbreak of coronavirus. The organisation says that it is working with South African authorities regarding the activation of necessary resources if required. WHO has also deployed personnel to African countries to deal with the possible coronavirus outbreak. South Africa has been classed as a priority-one country because of the large number of travellers to and from the country, among other reasons. Technical Officer at the WHO Regional Office for Africa, Dr Mary Stephens, says they will continue to assist South Africa and other countries. “The major areas we saw challenges with regards to preparedness were the areas of infection prevention and control and also case management. What we are doing is to provide targeted support to these countries in addressing those areas with greatest need. We have deployed experts to most of the priority one countries including South Africa and a lot of the priority two countries to help them address those gaps in those critical areas where we think they need urgent support.”  In the video below, health authorities say that they are ready to detect the coronavirus in South Africa.  – Additional reporting by Risha Maduray.