Five people have been arrested in Langa on the Cape Flats for possession of alcohol to the value of R100 000. This amid the national lockdown, which prohibits the sale and possession of alcohol outside of private homes during this time. The men, including the driver of a double-cab bakkie, were pulled over by members of the City’s Safety and Security Investigations Unit and charged under the Disaster Management Act. “Alcohol abuse is a major driver of crime and violence in much of our communities and to wilfully ignore the regulations to proceed to distribute the alcohol is a major concern and must be punished. It’s also important that we identify the source of the liquor and the wholesaler that continues to sell alcohol to various shebeens at this time,” says Western Cape Mayco member of Safety and Security, JP Smith. More than 65 people have been arrested in the Western Cape since the lockdown came into effect at midnight on Thursday. Hermanus a ghost town South African currently has 1 187 coronavirus infections. The Western Cape is the second most affected province with 27 confirmed cases. The Overberg in the Western Cape is currently sitting on seven cases of confirmed coronavirus infections. Overstrand Law Enforcement and South African Police Services (SAPC) conducted joint operations in the area on Sunday, to make sure residents are complying with lockdown restrictions. The main town in Hermanus, a tourist hub, was a ghost town – with just the odd police and security vehicle spotted in the area. In the neighbouring informal settlement Zwelihle, authorities were kept busier. Here, little kids were found roaming the area. They were then taken back to their homes. Loitering adults were also ordered back into their homes. Only those out to buy essentials, were allowed to carry on with their tasks. The situation was much the same in neighbouring Mount Pleasant. There however, many residents applauded and thanked law enforcement officials for the work they are doing. Authorities in the area say no arrests were made on Sunday, but they’ve issued a bunch of fines, to those not complying. In this video below, we look at the situation of the lockdown in the Western Cape:    