Kenya announced on Friday that it is halting all international conferences for 30 days and advised citizens to only travel to countries that have confirmed cases of COVID-19 only if it is absolutely necessary. Cancelling conferences will prevent crowds where the virus can spread as well as limit people to people contact. The country’s Cabinet Secretary for Health visited an isolation and treatment facility for suspected cases of the disease. Inside Kenya’s isolation and treatment facility, like the rest of the world is scrambling to prepare health facilities as coronavirus spreads to more countries.  Until last month, most of the COVID-19 related deaths were reported in China where the disease originated, that has now changed, the count on Friday stood at 93 countries, more than 95,000 confirmed cases with over 3,000 deaths.  Kenya is not among countries with confirmed cases but it is not taking chances. “The government has with immediate effect banned all meetings, conferences and events of international nature in Kenya,” says Mutahi Kagwe who is the cabinet Secretary Health in Kenya. Among international events that will be affected by the ban in an international golf tournament, the Kenya Open which was due next week. Working with the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the Africa Centre for Disease and Prevention, Africa CDC, the Kenyan government announced that it has trained personnel in public and private hospitals, some of whom will be deployed here. “This is an isolation and treatment facility and it is the only one we have around here about 1,100 additional health workers have been trained,” explains Kagwe. The health ministry also began mass text messaging citizens in a bid to educate them on simple habits that may keep COVID-19 at bay. Coronavirus in Africa:  Loading… (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));