The National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa (Numsa) has condemned what it terms gross human rights abuses at Lanxess Chrome Mine in Rustenburg in the North West. The union accuses Lanxess management of denying workers who are staging a sit-in underground adequate food. The mine said last week that the workers staging the sit-in will get food and water under strict conditions from their colleagues and relatives. However, their colleagues say that it has been difficult delivering food and water to the workers underground. In the videos below, more than 100 Lanxess Chrome Mine workers stage an underground sit-in:   The workers have been underground since February 17 in protest against the mine for allegedly allowing a security manager who was found guilty of sexually harassing a female employee to take special leave. This is despite an independent presiding officer recommending that he be dismissed. The workers also want management to address allegations of corruption and nepotism and end outsourcing. The strike is also aimed at highlighting challenges faced by part-time workers at the mine. Workers are demanding that management stops hiring unregistered employees. They accuse unregistered workers of being corrupt. Numsa national spokesperson Phakamile Hlubi-Majola says several workers have collapsed underground. “LEC management is not giving proper food. They have been giving them porridge, which is not suitable for their health and well-being. And they have ignored our request to be heard lawfully on this issue. Therefore we will be bringing an urgent application to the South Gauteng High Court next week in order to access our members and provide them with proper food.” The mine has declared the strike as “no work no pay.” All entrances that lead to mine shafts and offices are off-limits for walk-in visitors, including colleagues of the striking workers. In the video below, Numsa representative Nere Moase explains the grievances of protesting Lanxess Chrome mineworkers. 