One of the world’s biggest long-haul airlines, Emirates says it will continue to operate passenger and cargo services to certain countries, following requests from governments and passengers. Emirates had announced the cancellation of nearly all passenger flights this week and cut staff wages by as much as half due to the impact on travel demand caused by the coronavirus pandemic. In a statement, the airline now says it will continue to support the repatriation of travellers to countries including South Africa. The other countries include the UK, Switzerland, Hong Kong, Thailand, Malaysia, Philippines, Japan, Singapore, South Korea, Australia, the USA, and Canada. However, it adds that the situation remains dynamic, and travellers are urged to continuously check the status of their flight on emirates.com. Emirates chairman Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed al-Maktoum says, “These are unprecedented times for the airline and travel industry, but we will get through it. Our business is taking a hit, but what matters in the long run is that we do the right thing for our customers, our employees, and the communities we serve.” “With the support and unity that we have seen from our employees, partners, customers, and other stakeholders, I’m confident that Emirates can tackle this challenge and come out stronger,” explains Sheikh Ahmed. Stocks crumble as more nations shut for business to curb virus Asian shares sank on Monday as a rising tide of national lockdowns threatened to overwhelm policymakers’ frantic efforts to cushion what is likely to be a deep global recession. MSCI’s broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan lost 3.8%, with New Zealand’s market shedding a record 10% as the government closed all non-essential businesses. Shanghai blue chips dropped 2.3%, though Japan’s Nikkei rose 0.8% aided perhaps by expectations of more aggressive asset buying by the Bank of Japan. There was little to cheer in coronavirus news as the global death toll exceeded over 14 000 with more than 300 000 infections. President Ramaphosa to address the nation Monday evening on COVID-19 President Ramaphosa is to address the nation on Monday on the outcome of a meeting with business and political party leaders on ways to fight the COVID-19 pandemic.   The engagements outlined the impact of the outbreak on the economy and steps to mitigate it. The video below, confirms that President Ramaphosa will address the nation this evening  Below is a Live Tracking of the cases, death toll and other information, updated daily:   