The forensic report into the death of Parktown Boys High School learner Enock Mpianzi (13) is expected to be released on Wednesday by MEC for Education in Gauteng Panyaza Lesufi Lesufi received the report last month and will share the findings with the media and the public at the school in Parktown, Johannesburg. The report is expected to shed light on the circumstances surrounding the death of the Mpianzi. The investigation looked into aspects such as the roll call of learners during school camps, the safety and care of learners as well as allegations that Mpianzi was not issued with a life jacket during the water activity. Last month, the release was postponed after the Mpianzi family did not give the Department the go-ahead for its release the report. Lesufi had appointed a private firm to investigate the incident after public outrage over Mpianzi’s death two months ago, and said preliminary findings suggested that there was wrongdoing on the part of those that had been given the mandate to take care of the children. The report will be handed over to the provincial government, teacher unions, pupils at the school and made public. Mpianzi died after a makeshift raft he and his fellow pupils built capsized in the Crocodile River at the Nyathi Bush and River Break Lodge in the North West in January. The school’s principal has since been suspended. WATCH: Forensic report on the death of Grade-8 learner Enock Mpianzi completed  The South African Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) offered legal assistance to the families of Mpianzi and Keamohetswe Shaun Seboko 13, who drowned at the school swimming pool at Laerskool Bekker in Magaliesburg. Manager of the SAHRC in Gauteng Buang Jones met with the both Mpianzi and Seboko’s family. Jones says, “The South African Human Rights Commission has offered legal assistance to the Enoch Mpianzi family. We discussed possible legal options and remedies available to them and to see if we can assist in securing appropriate redress on behalf of the family… “We stand ready to mediate this matter between the department, the school and the family, we also stand ready to provide assistance to the family in which to litigate in this matter,” added Jones. Meanwhile, Human Rights lawyer Richard Spoor said both families can lodge civil claims in the deaths of their children. “The consequences for a parent if they lose a child are very severe. It leaves a huge hole in their lives, it causes immense emotional distress and trauma, it damages their identity, it takes away a big chunk of the meaning of their lives so yes there are consequences and the law provides for recourse through a civil claim for damages.” Mpianzi was laid to rest on January 31, 2020. In the video below, SAHRC members visit the lodge where Mpianzi died  Enock Mpianzi by SABC Digital News PODCAST: Outrage over drowning of three children in separate incidents 