Police Minister Bheki Cele says at least seven people have been arrested in Montclair, Durban, for going against the national lockdown regulations. Several other revelers were arrested at a nightclub in Hillbrow in Johanneburg, Gauteng, for violating the rules.  This as the nation goes into a 21-day lockdown to help stem the spread of the coronavirus. The country has 927 confirmed Covid19 cases – the highest in Africa. Cele says while most people are following the rules, only a few have been found wanting. “They are adhering and a few problems. In Durban I am told things went well, but seven people were arrested in Montclair , where they were dancing and drinking on the road at 2AM. Police had to act and they were arrested,” he says. Lockdown will bear fruit National Police spokesperson Brigadier Vish Naidoo says police believe the lockdown will yield positive results in slowing the spread of coronavirus. Naidoo says police together with the army and other road traffic authorities are taking a strong stance in ensuring rules are adhered to. “Those that are non-essential will also be able to move around provided that it is for the purpose of procurement of groceries, medical supplies, visiting a doctor or a hospital or clinic and those people will have to prove to the security forces that they are indeed out of their houses for those purposes.” “And for those people that leave your houses and they cannot prove to the police that they are going out for the purposes that I’ve outlined, then they will be warned to return to their house and if they transgress for the second time then, we will have them arrested for the contravention of the lockdown,” explains Naidoo. In the video below, President Ramaphosa addresses the nation on coronavirus:  Public transport during lockdown Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula says public transport would only be available from 5am and 9am, and 4pm and 8pm. However, the minister has emphasised that buses and trains will not be allowed to transport people. He has added that taxis would be allowed to ferry essential services workers and consumers to shops, but under strict and control measures that observe social distancing to limit the spread of the deadly coronavirus. In the video below, Minister Mbalula shares transport guidelines:  Uber, Bolt and metered taxis would also be allowed to operate, under under strict and control measures as well. Workers who have been categorised as essential services will be allowed to travel in private vehicles under strict measures. These measure include that a vehicle certified to carry four passengers will be allowed to carry one person only, while a vehicle licensed to carry up to 8 passengers will only be permitted to load a maximum of 3 passengers. Policing Police Minister Bheki Cele has once again reiterated that pet walking and the selling of alcohol will not be allowed during the lockdown period. Cele says individuals found to be breaking these laws may be subjected to six years in jail or a fine. “Equally, the movement of liquor between any two points is also strictly prohibited as per the Covid-19 Disaster Management Regulations,” says the minister. In the video below, Minister Cele says police will be on high alert:  He has warned the public against defying these new regulations. Cele says people should not use this lockdown period to host braais. “Therefore, anyone found to be in contravention of the regulations, shall be found guilty and on conviction, will be liable to a fine, or imprisonment for a period not exceeding six months, or both,” Cele adds. Below is the timeline of South Africa’s COVID-19 cases: 