The community of KwaMashu in KwaZulu-Natal is reeling from shock following the discovery of the bodies of two women at P Section. The women’s bodies were found in a bush by community members who were passing by. They are believed to be in their twenties. The grim discovery comes just days after four-year-old Sanelisiwe Mhlongo’s remains were found in the same area in M Section on Friday. The community had been planning to protest over Mhlongo’s murder when they heard that the bodies of two women had been found in the same area. The bush where the bodies were found is a few meters from the KwaMashu Shopping Centre and clinic. Community members, including learners, walk along this route daily. One of the locals, Thando Mvelase, is calling for the bushes to be cleared and for proper street lighting and CCTV cameras. “This is very disturbing,  this scene is close to school. We are living in fear. This place is close to our homes. We are none. We are calling on the municipality to clear this area. These kids were not going to have dumped here if it was clear,” says Mvelase. Police discover two bodies in KwaMashu:  Member of the KwaZulu-Natal legislature, Zinhle Cele, is calling on community members to come forward with information that can lead to the arrest of the perpetrators. “It’s really painful to see young women being brutally killed by men. When the country is also trying to deal with the scourge of gender based violence. For me it’s no longer gender-based violence. It’s violence against women perpetrated by men because these cases men are involved. Coz it looks like these ladies were raped and the child that was killed in M section was also found naked and raped,” says Cele. Provincial Police Spokesperson, Nqobile Gwala, says investigations into the murder are under way. “Charges of murder have been opened for investigation at KwaMashu SAPS. It is alleged today at 12:30, two bodies of women believed to be in their twenties were found in the bushes on Sigede Road at P Section in KwaMashu. They were found with gunshot wounds to the head. The matter is still under investigation,” says Gwala. The bodies of the women are yet to be identified.