Police are investigating the murder of two children in Orange farm, south of Johannesburg. The bodies of six-year-old Simphiwe Mncina and eight-year-old Mpho Makondo were discovered a few meters apart in Extension 4. The children were last seen on Friday night walking back from a local salon. When little Mncina and his friend Makondo failed to arrive home on Friday, their families and residents of Extension 4 began a search for the pair. By the early hours of Saturday, an anonymous caller led to the gruesome discovery of the children. Thabisang Malatjie, Makondo’s grandfather, says the community continued the search after the police left around 4AM. “We searched with the police the whole night. They left us at around 4AM while we continue to search. They said we must come at the police station at 6AM. While we were about to leave the house, we got a call that we must come to this street. When we arrived, we found this little boy lying in the street and they put a note on him. He was only wearing shorts. Then I walked down the street and found my grandchild lying next to this stone wearing nothing. She was naked, not even shoes.” Both families are devastated by the double murder: Mncina’s grandmother, Dudu Mojafe says they are struggling to come to terms with his death. “As the family, we are hurting. We wish the perpetrators can be caught, who killed these children (sic). We also hope the community can help the police and send those responsible for these murders to jail because we were expecting a lot from them. I will miss him because he used to ask me R1 when I come to see them here. I will dearly miss him and I won’t forget him.” Mncina and Makondo’s killings are the second to happen in the same street. In April, five-year-old Mzwandile Zothi’s body was found in the same area. His body was found in a tarven. Residents say they live in fear. “We are shocked. So.me are fearing for the lives of their children. I’m crying. Our grandchildren are being killed. We want the person who killed these children. It is not the first time. This is the second incident. My grandchild cannot walk in the street fearing that he’s going to be killed. This is the first time we experience such incident. As the community, we are shocked.” Police Spokesperson Mathapelo Peters says the case will be escalated to provincial level. “The motive for the killing of the little boy and the little girl is yet to be determined, while a post mortem will be conducted to establish the exact cause of death. The investigation into this double murder will be prioritised and escalated to the provincial investigating unit, in line with the SAPS position to prioritise the investigation of crimes committed against women, children and other vulnerable persons.” Authorities have advised parents to prioritise the safety of their children and not let them walk at night unaccompanied.