President Cyril Ramaphosa has urged the United Nations (UN) and global leaders to strengthen cooperation with various regional bodies such as the African Union. Ramaphosa is currently the Chairperson of the African Union. World leaders were converging in a virtual meeting, to mark the 75th anniversary of the United Nations.  Taking centre stage was the coronavirus pandemic. Ramaphosa said in a recorded message that global peace was not just a world free of conflict, but one where all nations were free from poverty and inequality. He also said violations of international law have to be dealt with more firmly. “Unilateral coercive measures and violations of international law must be dealt with firmly and consistently. We must strengthen the UN’s coordination with regional bodies such as the AU to ensure our efforts are complementary and mutually reinforcing, global peace is not just about a world free of conflict it is also a world free of poverty, inequality, and underdevelopment. Let us strengthen the bonds of cooperation, solidarity, and friendship. I thank you. “ Coronavirus President Ramaphosa says the UN must continue to lead the way and ensure a transformative and inclusive future for all nations especially in the aftermath of the coronavirus pandemic. Ramaphosa said world leaders had to work together to tackle global challenges such as the pandemic and climate change. “To resolve our global challenges the health emergencies, conflict and war, climate change, migration, and natural disasters we must work together. The UN system is the best means by which we can address and overcome these global challenges. It is only through multilateralism that we can forge common strategies for the benefit and advancement of all. We must ensure that the sovereign quality of nations is protected.” President Ramaphosa’s address:  World leaders mark 75th anniversary of UN:  Ramaphosa sick Meanwhile, President Cyril Ramaphosa’s acting spokesperson, Tyrone Seale, earlier confirmed that the President is suffering from a common cold and is taking some bed rest. Minister in the Presidency Jackson Mthembu earlier said that the President was not able to meet representatives of the union, Nehawu, in Pretoria. Mthembu said the President is taking a break. “So the only person who can deal with these issues properly and listen to what Nehawu has to say is our President and he’s available to meet with them on Wednesday because today he’s really sick. He is in blankets as I speak.”