The Democratic Alliance (DA) is calling on President Cyril Ramaphosa to release the full Special Investigating Unit (SIU) report into the alleged looting of COVID-19 funds. DA Interim Leader, John Steenhuisen, says  the DA is extremely concerned following recent media reports that Ramaphosa only intends to release certain parts of the SIU investigation into COVID-19 procurement corruption. Steenhuisen says Ramaphosa should be transparent if he is serious about tackling corruption of the COVID-19 funds. He says many South Africans have sacrificed a great deal during the coronavirus pandemic and government lockdown. “It was also abused and used by predators – both within an outside government to abuse the situation and enrich themselves and the elite around them. This is completely unacceptable. If the President is serious about about drawing a line in the sand against corruption, then surely he must know that transparency, accountability and a full disclosure is the best antidote towards corruption,” says Steenhuisen. The DA says it wants a full disclosure of exactly what happened during this period, so that it can ensure that it never ever happens again. The DA rejects the attempt by Ramaphosa to censor the Special Investigating Unit’s (SIU) report into COVID-19 corruption. The SIU has reportedly confirmed that Ramaphosa will himself decide which part of this report will be made public. – @jsteenhuisenhttps://t.co/dnFAuit8QD — Democratic Alliance (@Our_DA) September 17, 2020  Most companies with COVID-19 tender not tax compliant Earlier this month, South African Revenue Service Commissioner (SARS) Edward Kieswetter says most companies awarded personal protective equipment tenders by government departments were not tax compliant. Kieswetter stated tax compliance by practitioners has a direct influence on their clients. “We would expect tax practitioners to be highly conscious of the tax morality of their own affairs and those of their clients and to endure the conduct of practice and to partner with us to build a culture of high compliance and not to tolerate or advance any tax evasion scheme that undermines our tax base.” He has urged tax practitioners to comply with the tax laws of the country and not to assist any tax evasion schemes. More than 60% of companies awarded PPE tenders are not tax compliant: 