President Cyril Ramaphosa has reiterated that the COVID-19 Temporary Employer-Employee Relief Scheme (TERS) benefits will assist unemployed people until the end of the national state of disaster. The Unemployment Insurance Fund (UIF) says it is still receiving new TERS applications. Applications for March, April and May will close on September the 25th – applications for June will close on October 25th – and applications for July to September the 15th will close on October 30. With the country now recording a steady decline in new coronavirus infections, Ramaphosa has announced the moving of South Africa to level 1 lockdown. President Cyril Ramaphosa’s address to the nation:  “More than 800 000 companies have benefited through the UIF wage support scheme and through the grants and loans provided by various government departments and public entities. More than 4 million workers have received R42 billion in wage support, helping to protect these jobs even while companies were not able to operate. The UIF benefit has been extended until the end of the national state of disaster,” explains the President. Meanwhile in August, Labour and Employment Minister Thulas  Nxesi said there were many employers who have received Unemployment Insurance Fund (UIF) payments but have not paid their employees. Nxesi has given the undertaking that those who have not yet been paid will get their money. UIF resumes payment of Ters benefits The UIF announced that it has resumed payment of its COVID-19 temporary employer/employee relief scheme (Ters) benefits after payments were temporarily suspended. UIF Commissioner Tebogo Maruping says they felt that it was important to pause the system on the Ters as an assurance process took place within the organisation. The process involves management assurance, risk management, internal auditor, and finally the Auditor-General having a look at the system to check if there are any discrepancies in payments to beneficiaries. Maruping says a report on the system is yet to be released: 