The Special Investigating Unit (SIU) says Gauteng Health MEC Bandile Masuku, his wife Loyiso Masuku who is a Member of the Mayoral Committee for Group Corporate and Shared Services as well as Presidential Spokesperson Khusela Diko will appear before it on October 6. The SIU says they must account for their alleged involvement in the controversial Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) tender. The SIU has ordered the Chief Financial Officer and Head of the Gauteng Health Department to pay back R30 million to the provincial government. #ANCGP The PEC felt that it is only the SIU report that can determine that people did not benefit personally. The POB’s and PWC will seek to get this information and get government to seek get progress on their report. #sabcnews — #TheLordOfTheMedia (@samkelemaseko) September 21, 2020  Advocate Selby Makgotho, Spokesperson of the SIU’s Special Tribunal, says the three will have to argue the merits of the case because there was an interim relief to freeze their accounts was to enable the SIU to proceed with their investigations. “Where we are at the moment, the Head of the Department as well as the CFO, there is a prima facie evidence that they will come and respond to hence the issuing of the summons but in relation to the other parties whose bank accounts have been frozen, they will be coming to the special tribunal next week Thursday on the sixth,” says Makgotho. In the video below, Makgotho explains further:  Last week, the ANC in Gauteng extended the leave of absence for Masuku, his wife Loyiso and Diko by two weeks. The ANC PEC  in the province resolved that investigations must continue into the controversial multi-million PPE tender involving the three officials. The PEC rejected a report into the matter by the Provincial Integrity Committee, saying there was inconsistency and inadequate information. The PEC also felt the report was contradictory in terms of oversight by the MEC. It has further resolved to engage with the government and the SIU to speed up their investigations. SIU report to decide fate for Khusela Diko, Bandile Masuku and Loyiso Masuku  