Two US police officers were shot and wounded overnight during protests that erupted in Louisville, Kentucky in the aftermath of a decision not to charge police officers directly involved in the death of Breonna Taylor. A grand jury decision that was communicated by the Kentucky Attorney General found that the two officers who fired their weapons at Taylor, killing her this past March, were justified in their use of force because they had been fired on first upon entering Taylor’s apartment. A third officer is the only one to face three charges of wanton endangerment for firing shots into a neighboring apartment, endangering the lives of the occupants there. Violent protests erupted on the streets of Louisville, Kentucky after the decision not to charge the two white officers who killed Taylor when they entered her apartment during a narcotics investigation. Daniel Cameron is the Republican Attorney General of Kentucky and the first black person to hold that position. “Evidence shows that officers both knocked and announced their presence at the apartment. The officers’ statements about their announcement are corroborated by an independent witness who was in near enough proximity to apartment four. In other words, the warrant was not served as a ‘no knock’ warrant. When officers were unable to get anyone to answer or open the door to the apartment four, the decision was made to breach the door.” It was then that Taylor’s boyfriend, who maintains he didn’t hear police announce themselves and thought they were intruders, fired the first shot from a licensed firearm, striking one of the officers in the leg. Under Kentucky Law the officers were then within their rights to return fire, hitting the unarmed Taylor six times, killing her. Boyfriend Kenneth Walker’s version that police did not announce themselves is corroborated by other neighbours in the apartment complex who differ from a single independent witness, who indicated that police did in fact announce themselves. “I certainly understand the pain that has been brought about by the tragic loss of Ms. (Breonna) Taylor. I understand that as an attorney general who is responsible for all 120 counties in terms of being the chief legal officer, the chief law enforcement officer, I understand that. I understand that as a black man, how painful this is,” added Cameron. Leading to largely peaceful protests in other cities including New York, Chicago, Washington D.C., Atlanta and Philadelphia – demonstrations seeking reforms of a system that holds no-one accountable for the death of an innocent black woman. President Trump – asked to weigh in – backed the Republican Kentucky Attorney General who he said was doing a fantastic job. “He’s handling it very well. You know who he is, right? You, you, I think you know it. I think everyone now knows who he is. I will be speaking to the governor and we have a call scheduled to make very shortly with the governor. I understand he’s called up the National Guard which is a good thing. I think that’s a very positive thing. And it will all work out,” said Trump. Rival Joe Biden acknowledged the decision does not answer the call for justice but also condemned all violent protests which have become a flashpoint in the Presidential race. “My heart goes out to her mother, and I understand there’s protests starting or they’re going to start?” Reporter asked,  “They’re expected tonight.” Biden replied, “Well, they should be peaceful. Do not sully her memory or her mother’s by engaging in any violence. It’s totally inappropriate for that to happen. And she wouldn’t want it, nor would her mother, so, I hope they do that, calmly.” Despite the grand jury decision, a separate FBI investigation remains open into Taylor’s killing. The Democratic Governor of Kentucky meanwhile urged his State’s Attorney General to post online all the evidence that could be released without affecting the charges filed – as the gulf between public opinion and a criminal justice system that heavily favours police, continues to grow.