Mashaba says the structures are unsafe as a result of shoddy workmanship and do not cater for the disabled as promised. “I cannot believe (almost) 27-years into our democracy, we cannot build quality houses, the toilets are outside and these houses are targeted at disabled South Africans and this is money where the state house was sold, saying we’re going to build houses for our people. If this is actually meant for our people, actually it feels like our political environment has not changed from the apartheid era where poor people were never regarded as human beings.” Almost 27 years into our democracy, government building houses for physical handicap South Africans, with toilets outside. We are cursed @Action4SA @AbelTau1 @AsktheChief01 pic.twitter.com/jOptYV7PGU — Herman Mashaba (@HermanMashaba) September 26, 2020  26 years of Democracy and people of South Africa still find themselves living under these conditions. @HermanMashaba pic.twitter.com/MStnV4pV4A — Funzi Ngobeni (@FunzelaZA) September 26, 2020  Houses being built using foam as walls. South Africans, we are cursed pic.twitter.com/TjQbfOxTXN — Herman Mashaba (@HermanMashaba) September 26, 2020  While it seems like the project is ongoing, Mashaba has promised to assist those who will be occupying the 40 houses with their grievances. “What we are saying we are promising, we will find a solution, what solution at the moment, I was not really aware about this. We are not the administration of the city and I’m confident we are going to win the city. And we’ll find a solution working with them to make sure we give them dignity.” Linkie Kewele occupied the house last year. The single mother of two says their house did not meet her expectations. “To be honest, we are not okay. We thought we would have toilets in the house, unfortunately, we don’t know what happened. We saw outside toilets.” Mashaba says Action SA will ensure that rightful owners will occupy these homes. When the people of South Africa call, we respond,we act! @Action4SA pic.twitter.com/myseiKEpdr — Funzi Ngobeni (@FunzelaZA) September 26, 2020 