Trade union, National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa, says the negative impact on South African Airways employees and their livelihoods is dire and has warned that should government fail to ensure the viability and sustainability of the national airline, the situation will be worse. This after the airline’s Business Rescue Practitioners confirmed receiving a letter from the Department of Public Enterprises and Treasury – making a commitment to provide the R10.5 billion-rand in funding to restructure SAA. Trade unions Numsa and South African Cabin Crew Association (SACCA) have given the Department a week to finalize the funding or face protracted protests. Numsa’s National Spokesperson Phakamile Hlubi Ka Majola says mismanagement and corruption led to SAA’s problems. “SAA contributes 34-thousands jobs along the value chain and other companies that depend on SAA’s existence are actually struggling because SAA is in a crisis. COVID-19 did not collapse SAA, it was by years and years of mismanagement and corruption. It would be irresponsible for any manager to just let it collapse, particularly as there is legislation which governs its protection and about the role of government ministers having a duty to ensure its viability and invest in it.” Our members are not responsible for the collapse of SAA and SA express. SOEs are in crisis cos govt as shareholder has failed! Why should Pravin and Tito continue to be paid from OUR taxes, when workers at SAA and Express have not been paid for months? #SAA#PaySAExpressWorkers — NUMSA (@Numsa_Media) September 18, 2020  Numsa and South African Cabin Crew Association (SACCA) have given the Department seven days in which to finalise funding for the restructuring of the embattled SAA or face protracted protests. The BRPs met with creditors to discuss the way forward for the airline. The BRPs say they have exhausted funds to keep the airline afloat. Hlubi Ka Majola immediate action must be taken to resolve the problems plaguing SAA: 