Authorities at Durban’s King Shaka International Airport in Durban say strict lockdown regulations will be enforced as the country prepares to re-open its international borders on October 1st. KwaZulu-Natal’s economy relies heavily on both the domestic and international tourism sector. Senior Corporate Affairs Manager Collin Naidoo says their priority is to rebuild passenger confidence. “We still not be allowing ‘meeters and greeters’ but we are urging people when they get to the airport to park their car at the multi-storey car park. Before getting to the terminal building, there is a checkpoint for health and temperature checks and for passenger to fill out and complete a travel health questionnaire. They will then proceed into the terminal and the checking area and again. You will notice that we ensure that people are social and physically distanced when they are waiting in queues,” says Naidoo. Passengers are reminded to please adhere to physical distancing of 1.5 meters inside the terminal building. pic.twitter.com/YCsFLfyFCy — King Shaka Int (@kingshakaint) September 18, 2020  Passengers are reminded that mandatory screening occurs on domestic flights. Therefore, please allow for at least 2 hours for check-in time to ensure that you do not miss your flight and incur additional costs. pic.twitter.com/NCG3Vk2txK — King Shaka Int (@kingshakaint) September 21, 2020  Reopening of international borders International travel across the African continent will be allowed to and from all countries under Level 1 lockdown. Travel to countries outside the continent with high coronavirus infection rates will, however, remain prohibited. Eighteen border posts will reopen for travel but sea ports will open for business only. Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs Minister Dr Nkosazana-Dlamini Zuma outlines restrictions on in international travel:  Durban tourism ready for resumption The Durban International Convention Centre says it has lost close to R165 million in cancelled events due to COVID-19. The ICC hosts events that attract thousands of national and international delegates throughout each year. Some of the big events that were cancelled include the Tourism Indaba and the Comrades Marathon Expo. ICC Spokesperson, Scott Langley says they had to livestream some events. Langley says as the country has moved to alert Level 1, they are prepared to host events again: 