The office of the Public Protector will be liaising with the Limpopo Department of Education to discuss ways to ensure that the procurement of Personal Protective Equipment supplied to schools is decentralised to individual schools. Public Protector, Busisiwe Mkhwebane, visited the Kabela Secondary School in Moletjie, outside Polokwane, on Tuesday. Teachers at the school informed her that masks that were supplied to the school in June are worn out. They also informed the Public Protector of a shortage of classrooms to enable efficient rotational timetables. Mkhwebane says it is concerning that neither the school governing body nor the principal was involved in the procurement process. “The masks, which were provided, are of poor quality, the principal was not involved in the procurement of that. How do you decentralise to a level where the principal and the communities are involved. It is not impressive at all, yes the principal has tried within his capabilities but if you have systematic challenges like this there is a lot to be done but we will try to intervene and change where we can change and we will work together with them.” Procurement system in the spotlight The public procurement system has been in the spotlight with allegations of corruption levelled against some government officials. Society stakeholders are calling on the government to rid the system of corruption. Civil society group Corruption Watch has written an open letter to President Cyril Ramaphosa and Finance Minister Tito Mboweni asking them to ensure the speeding up of the process to enact the Public Procurement Bill into law. The Bill is currently in Parliament for consideration. However, the group says it has loopholes that need to be addressed. Corruption Watch Executive Director David Lewis says they want the government to show decisive leadership in the fight against corruption. “Corruption Watch and the Public Affairs Institute have this morning (Tuesday) sent an open letter to President Ramaphoa and Minister Mboweni concerning the questions of public procurement. We believe that with the current controversy around the current COVID-19 procurement corruption and the commitment to tighten it up to prevent further corruption there is a golden opportunity to reform the procurement system as a whole.” How does the tender system work?  How the government tender process works The first step in the tender process A business must first ensure that it is registered on the supplier database of the relevant local, provincial or national authority –this is a requirement for tender consideration. Where to find tenders Tenders are issued by national and provincial government departments and municipalities, and parastatals like Eskom, Spoornet, the SABC, the IDCand ACSA. They can usually be found advertised in the weekly government tender bulletin. Filling in the forms Make sure that you have enough time to prepare and submit an offer before the due date. Completed forms must be posted or delivered by hand to the originator of the tender, and before the cut-off date and time. How is a tender awarded? Before any awarding is done, the tender board will scrutinise all applications to ensure they comply with the requirements –those with information missing, such as no price, will be rejected. How is a tender awarded? Before any awarding is done, the tender board will scrutinise all applications to ensure they comply with the requirements –those with information missing, such as no price, will be rejected. Types of tender corruption Bribery -seen as the most common type of corruption, it can be understood as an offer of money, goods or services in order to gain an advantage. Bid-rigging–takes place when companies conspire to fix the price for goods and services, purchased through a bidding process, to an affectedly high level. Collusive bidding by contractors–contractors work together to co-ordinate markets, prices and production with the goal of increasing their own profits by reducing competition. Extortion-entails causing harm or threatening a person in order to gain something. Fraud-involves some kind of deceit and manipulation or distortion of information by a public officer with the intention to seek personal gain. Graft– a form of political corruption in which an official acquires financial gain by dishonest or unfair means. (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));  