Corruption Watch says most of the reported corruption activities occurred during the lockdown period. The organisation also noted an increase in education and health related corruption cases. Health corruption accounted for 4 percent of reports of corruption received and 39% employment irregularities topped the list. Whistle-blowers reported that vacancies in the sector are designed to favour officials’ preferred candidates. Procurement irregularities accounted for 14 percent of cases relating to healthcare corruption by senior officials. The civil group released its annual report on corruption trends earlier today. Corruption Watch researcher, Melusi Ncala says, “At least in this set of data there has been an increase in corruption compared to last year. Much of that is during the lockdown period. I mean 55 percent of these reports of corruption were received during lockdown period.” “Of course … we are in a global crisis and health care is of paramount importance and what we seeing there are issues with procurement. There are a lot of irregularities where in some instances we have had a person heading a health facility insisting that his family members or friends should be the one awarded those tenders to be able to work in that hospital,” adds Ncala. In the video below, Gauteng provincial ANC is reporting on the status of the PPE report:  Meanwhile, the Gauteng ANC Provincial Executive Committee (PEC) on Monday failed to release the personal protective equipment (PPE) tender report on the fate of those implicated in the controversy. The meeting has been ongoing since Saturday to deal with, among other things, the report by the Integrity Commission relating to the multi-million-rand PPE tenders. Those implicated include Gauteng Health MEC Dr Bandile Masuku, his wife Loyiso Masuku, a member of the mayoral committee at the city of Joburg, and Presidential spokesperson Khusela Diko. The outcome of the investigation was expected to be announced in a press briefing scheduled for yesterday. It is understood that the discussions deadlocked following disagreements on the outcome of the report that has been found to have inconsistencies. The video below, is reporting on ANC authority being tested internally:  