The South African Council of Churches (SACC) will host a prayer service led by the Anglican Archbishop of Canterbury, Justin Welby against corruption on Sunday. It will form part of a series of services in September to pray for a stop to the corruption linked to the COVID-19 pandemic in South Africa under the theme: Corruption is not our heritage. The service will be broadcast on SABC TV between 16:00 and 17:30. The South African Council of Churches will host a prayer service for Africa amid COVID-19 on Sunday:  The council’s Bishop Malusi Mpumlwana says the service is to express their outrage against corruption. “It is expressing our outrage at COVID corruption. Secondly, it is an opportunity for churches to lift the spirits of our people and give a message of hope, a message of encouragement as well as taking into account the great sacrifices that are being made by frontline workers – all these people face immense dangers through their lives for the sake of all.” Meanwhile, President Cyril Ramaphosa will not be part of the Anglican Church of Southern Africa’s 150th anniversary on Sunday. The Anglican Church invited him but the Presidency says he will not be able to participate. Presidential Spokesperson Tyrone Seale has told SABC News that a message will be read out at the service on the President’s behalf. The service will be led by Archbishop Thabo Makgoba at the St George’s Cathedral with the Archbishop of Canterbury Justin Welby making an online appearance as a keynote speaker. President of the South African Council of Churches Bishop Siwa is also expected to address the service. Archbishop Makgoba says the anniversary is commemorated in partnership with the South African Council of Churches. “So, it is the Anglicans celebrating with others. We are part of the South African Council of Churches, lined up of services, where we want to say to the country in the midst of suffering, in the midst of difficulties, there is hope. Let us continue to be courageous. Let us continue to look after ourselves,” says Makgoba.