Political analyst Somadoda Fikeni has warned that African National Congress (ANC) members suspected of being involved in corruption are likely to strongly resist the party’s National Executive Committee’s (NEC) resolutions emanating from its special meeting that took place at the weekend. On Monday, ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa said all party members, who are formally charged with corruption or other serious crimes, must immediately relinquish their positions in the party or government until their cases are finalised. The decision is part of the outcomes of the NEC special meeting. Fikeni says South Africans should brace themselves for more corruption-related squabbles in the governing party. “I doubt you will have the Damascus moment where people wake up and suddenly they have this decisiveness and conviction. You’ll still have battles behind the scenes, more so because law enforcement closing in on some of the top leaders may cause discomfort. “They may fight back. There could be a backlash and all. But more importantly, now, it’s that some of the issues have been put to rest and they are beginning to deal with issues at a higher level and they are also giving a signal to government agencies and assure them that there will be no interference.” In the video below, Political Analyst Somadoda Fikeni talks to the SABC News:  Integrity Commission On Monday, ANC NEC Member Bongani Bongo confirmed that he would step aside from his duties.  Ramaphosa and ANC Secretary-General Ace Magashule are expected to appear before the party’s Integrity Commission soon over the CR17 campaign funding and comments made over corruption, respectively. Other people implicated in corruption include Khusela Diko and Gauteng Health MEC Bandile Masuku. Bongo is facing a charge of corruption in relation to an allegation that he offered a bribe to Ntuthuzelo Vanara, the evidence leader of the Parliamentary Inquiry into the alleged interference at Eskom by the Gupta family. The infographic below explains how the government tender process works    How the government tender process works The first step in the tender process A business must first ensure that it is registered on the supplier database of the relevant local, provincial or national authority –this is a requirement for tender consideration. Where to find tenders Tenders are issued by national and provincial government departments and municipalities, and parastatals like Eskom, Spoornet, the SABC, the IDCand ACSA. They can usually be found advertised in the weekly government tender bulletin. Filling in the forms Make sure that you have enough time to prepare and submit an offer before the due date. Completed forms must be posted or delivered by hand to the originator of the tender, and before the cut-off date and time. How is a tender awarded? Before any awarding is done, the tender board will scrutinise all applications to ensure they comply with the requirements –those with information missing, such as no price, will be rejected. How is a tender awarded? Before any awarding is done, the tender board will scrutinise all applications to ensure they comply with the requirements –those with information missing, such as no price, will be rejected. Types of tender corruption Bribery -seen as the most common type of corruption, it can be understood as an offer of money, goods or services in order to gain an advantage. Bid-rigging–takes place when companies conspire to fix the price for goods and services, purchased through a bidding process, to an affectedly high level. Collusive bidding by contractors–contractors work together to co-ordinate markets, prices and production with the goal of increasing their own profits by reducing competition. Extortion-entails causing harm or threatening a person in order to gain something. Fraud-involves some kind of deceit and manipulation or distortion of information by a public officer with the intention to seek personal gain. Graft– a form of political corruption in which an official acquires financial gain by dishonest or unfair means. (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); sabcnews.com |  SABC News channel | SABC Radio news Nepotism-favouring friends and family when granting jobs or benefits. Patronage system-takes place when local public office holders grant favours, jobs and contracts in return for political support. How does corruption enter into the tender process ? Sizes of contracts –bribes tend to be calculated as percentages of the total contract amount. Thus, the more money involved the higher the potential kickbacks. Complexity of technology –where a contract involves high-level technology, there tends to be greater difficulty in evaluating if the price paid for goodsor services is realistic or not. Type of sector involved –some sectors are more prone to corruption than other sectors. These sectors include: schools, construction, health care, tertiary education. Discretion –the more a procurement officer can influence demand and preferences, the easier it is for that officer to take part in corruption. Lack of financial controls –if oversight systems are weak there is a lesser chance of being caught in corrupt acts, and thus leads to a higher level of corruption. Restricted access to information –if there is poor transparency involving executive decisions, especially if it is combined with a lack of public demand for information. Immediacy –the urgency to complete a contract leads to greater opportunities to inflate the price of a contract. Conflict of interest –the risk of corruption increases when public duties and the private interest of an involved actor are conflicting because there is a chance that the public position might be exploited to the advantage of private interests. Source: Corruption Watch (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));