Civil society group Corruption Watch has written an open letter to President Cyril Ramaphosa and Finance Minister Tito Mboweni asking them to ensure the speeding up of the process to enact the Public Procurement Bill into law. The Bill is currently in Parliament for consideration. However, the group says it has loopholes that need to be addressed. The group says it is deeply concerned about the high levels of corruption in the public procurement system. Corruption Watch executive director David Lewis says they want government to show decisive leadership in the fight against corruption. “Corruption Watch and the Public Affairs Institute have this morning (Tuesday) sent an open letter to President Ramaphoa and Minister Mboweni concerning the questions of public procurement. We believe that with the current controversy around the current COVID-19 procurement corruption and the commitment to tighten it up to prevent further corruption there is a golden opportunity to reform the procurement system as a whole.”  How the government tender process works The first step in the tender process A business must first ensure that it is registered on the supplier database of the relevant local, provincial or national authority –this is a requirement for tender consideration. Where to find tenders Tenders are issued by national and provincial government departments and municipalities, and parastatals like Eskom, Spoornet, the SABC, the IDCand ACSA. They can usually be found advertised in the weekly government tender bulletin. Filling in the forms Make sure that you have enough time to prepare and submit an offer before the due date. Completed forms must be posted or delivered by hand to the originator of the tender, and before the cut-off date and time. How is a tender awarded? Before any awarding is done, the tender board will scrutinise all applications to ensure they comply with the requirements –those with information missing, such as no price, will be rejected. How is a tender awarded? Before any awarding is done, the tender board will scrutinise all applications to ensure they comply with the requirements –those with information missing, such as no price, will be rejected. Types of tender corruption Bribery -seen as the most common type of corruption, it can be understood as an offer of money, goods or services in order to gain an advantage. Bid-rigging–takes place when companies conspire to fix the price for goods and services, purchased through a bidding process, to an affectedly high level. Collusive bidding by contractors–contractors work together to co-ordinate markets, prices and production with the goal of increasing their own profits by reducing competition. Extortion-entails causing harm or threatening a person in order to gain something. Fraud-involves some kind of deceit and manipulation or distortion of information by a public officer with the intention to seek personal gain. Graft– a form of political corruption in which an official acquires financial gain by dishonest or unfair means. (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); sabcnews.com |  SABC News channel | SABC Radio news Nepotism-favouring friends and family when granting jobs or benefits. Patronage system-takes place when local public office holders grant favours, jobs and contracts in return for political support. How does corruption enter into the tender process ? Sizes of contracts –bribes tend to be calculated as percentages of the total contract amount. Thus, the more money involved the higher the potential kickbacks. Complexity of technology –where a contract involves high-level technology, there tends to be greater difficulty in evaluating if the price paid for goodsor services is realistic or not. Type of sector involved –some sectors are more prone to corruption than other sectors. These sectors include: schools, construction, health care, tertiary education. Discretion –the more a procurement officer can influence demand and preferences, the easier it is for that officer to take part in corruption. Lack of financial controls –if oversight systems are weak there is a lesser chance of being caught in corrupt acts, and thus leads to a higher level of corruption. Restricted access to information –if there is poor transparency involving executive decisions, especially if it is combined with a lack of public demand for information. Immediacy –the urgency to complete a contract leads to greater opportunities to inflate the price of a contract. Conflict of interest –the risk of corruption increases when public duties and the private interest of an involved actor are conflicting because there is a chance that the public position might be exploited to the advantage of private interests. Source: Corruption Watch (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));