ActionSA says it has welcomed IEC’s decision to retract the stipulation that the features on the South Africa flag in the party’s logo, were grounds for rejecting ActionSA’s application to register as a political party. IEC changes its tune on the ActionSA logo:  The IEC on Monday said the decision to reject the application was based on what it says is ActionSA’s similar branding with that of another organisation, as well as the use of the South African flag in its logo. The IEC specifically listed the Heraldry Act is one of three grounds for the rejection of the application. “Furthermore, the proposed distinguishing mark or symbol of ActionSA contains the national flag as part of its emblem. Given that the national flag has been registered under the Heraldry Act 18 of 1962, no organisation, institution or concern, including a political party, may use the flag or a portion of the flag to form part of its emblem,” the electoral commission said. File video, IEC rejects ActionSA application for registration as a political party:  However, IEC Deputy CEO Masego Sheburi said earlier on Tuesday that the application was not rejected on the grounds of the Heraldry Act. “Reference to the Heraldry Act was just to assist the political party, it is not the basis on which we rejected the application.” In a statement, ActionSA leader Herman Mashaba said that he is glad that the IEC has conceded that they have to grounds to reject the party’s application. He says they will take up the contradiction from the IEC’s letter and interview with the SABC with their legal team. “The contradiction between the IEC’s letter and their statement during their interview will be taken up by our legal teams handling our appeal so that we can receive written confirmation of the reversal of their position on this particular element of the matter. The change in the IEC’s position does serve to demonstrate that the IEC did not apply their mind sufficiently to our application and this will be taken up in our appeal.” ActionSA says in exercising its responsibilities, the IEC must not limit the constitutionally protected right to participate in the electoral process through inconsistent and arbitrary decision-making processes.