Indoor events will be allowed to host no more than 200 people while 500 will be the maximum number of people who can attend outdoor events as the country enters Alert Level 1 of the lockdown. President Cyril Ramaphosa made this announcement when he addressed the nation on Wednesday evening, saying that the country will move to Level 1 of the coronavirus lockdown from midnight on Sunday the 20th of September.  The news comes as some relief to the creative industry which was up in arms lately demanding that they should be allowed to hold events. Earlier today, artists from various disciplines have marched to the Union Buildings in Pretoria where they handed over a memorandum of demands to the Office of the President. One of the demands on their list is that 70% local music be played on South African radio stations. SA musician Vicky Sampson shares more on the plight of artists in the country:  The artists further demand that charges against artists arrested during a protest in Durban to be dropped. Most medical experts said the country has space to move to a lower level of lockdown as the rate of coronavirus infections slow. The number of people who have been infected as well as the number of those who have died is substantially lower than the worst predictions at the start of the pandemic. President Ramaphosa announces move to Lockdown Level 1:  Ramaphosa says there will also be a gradual easing of restrictions on international travel from the first of October. However, the President says travel may be restricted to and from certain high-risk countries.  Ramaphosa also says the curfew will be eased to 12 midnight to 4am. President Cyril Ramaphosa’s address to the nation:  Although we have managed to control the virus through strict lockdown measures, the threat of a ‘second wave’ of infections remains. Vital precautionary measures must be maintained to prevent a new spike in COVID-19 cases. pic.twitter.com/Onk2bHZzqe — Presidency | South Africa  (@PresidencyZA) September 16, 2020  The easing of restrictions on alcohol sales under Level 1 must be done cautiously and responsibly to prevent harm to public health. pic.twitter.com/y2P1iDr863 — Presidency | South Africa  (@PresidencyZA) September 16, 2020  Careful screening of international travellers at airports and border crossings is essential to prevent infected visitors from entering the country and contributing to the spread of the virus. pic.twitter.com/UGB09n3BVT — Presidency | South Africa  (@PresidencyZA) September 16, 2020  President Cyril Ramaphosa has warned that the country needs to guard against a second wave of the coronavirus, as South Africa. Gyms and theatres will be allowed to operate at 50 percent capacity. Alcohol sales will be allowed from Monday to Friday.  Ramaphosa has urged people to download the COVID-19 Alert app and to use the COVID Connect service on Whatsapp. The President says South Africans must continue to follow coronavirus safety protocols. President’s full speech:  