Executive chairperson of the Democracy Works Foundation William Gumede says South Africa’s electoral system will make it difficult for the African National Congress (ANC) in Gauteng to take punitive measures against Health MEC Bandile Masuku, his wife Loyiso Masuku and Presidential Spokesperson Khusela Diko. The party’s Provincial Executive Committee which is meeting this weekend to discuss the provincial Integrity Commission’s report on the three will on Sunday brief the media on the outcome of the meeting. The three are implicated in a R125-million PPE tender that the Gauteng Health Department awarded to Royal Bhaca, a company that belongs to the Presidential spokesperson’s husband Chief Madzikane Thandisizwe Diko. Gumede says the party is dealing with a complicated situation. “Let us say they are guilty parties now in corruption, and they were elected by constituencies, which on their own can recall the person and can have their own meeting and say you know what, unacceptable, this person is not representing us. This person is so incompetent and so corrupt and doesn’t represent our interests. In our current system, we can’t do that. They will ask the party leadership to do something and they will listen to them and say well, we are going to do something and of course do nothing.” In the video below, Gauteng ANC spokesperson Bones Modise shares more about the meeting: ANC Provincial Secretary laments COVID-19 corruption ANC provincial secretary David Khawe says it’s disappointing that the corruption allegations have come during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. “The ANC has to rise and be with the people and in this instance, as the ANC we must lower our arrogance. We are saying to the people of South Africa, that this should not have happened during the COVID period. We have a stand as the provincial ANC that we stand against corruption, we’re renewing the ANC, we’re building the integrity of the ANC but brand ANC has to be protected.” Masuku Political analyst Xolani Dube says if Bandile Masuku is removed from the PEC or his position as an MEC, that will make Gauteng Premier David Makhura a zombie premier. In the video below, Dube explains his utterances: 