The South African Office of the Military Ombud has assured South Africans, that it remains accessible to assist those who feel aggrieved by the conduct of the members of the SANDF in the execution of their duties. The ombud office says it has noted a statement released by the Department of Defence, regarding various allegations of abuse by deployed members of the SANDF, who are helping to enforce the 21 day national lockdown. The ombud says those who want to lodge a complaint with the Military Ombud Office are advised to provide a description of the incident including: date, time and place of incident. Members of the public have 90 days to lodge a complaint and they can support their claims with video or audio recordings. Government must clarify limit of SANDF’s powers: Analyst Political analyst Khaya Sithole says government must clarify the limit of the powers of the South African National Defence Force (SANDF) members. There have been reports of alleged brutality by some SANDF members who have been deployed to support the police to manage the 21-day nationwide lockdown. In his address to the nation on Monday night, President Cyril Ramaphosa called on the SANDF members to act within the law at all times. He cautioned them against harming South Africans and instead ensure their safety. Earlier, Defence Minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula condemned the alleged conduct of the SANDF members but called on members of the public to avoid provoking them. Sithole says in the South African context, the law is difficult to implement as there’s a culture of non-compliance. He says, “The first problem is if you are going to deal with the problem of the SANDF, the first question is why do they need guns? When the use of the gun is violated, why do they carry them? So, those are the types of problems that you need to deal with because others would say well, in the absence of the guns no one will take them seriously. That speaks more to the culture of impunity that prevails across society, the culture of non-compliance to laws and regulations, so again, it’s new territory, and it’s a learning process. Nobody knew what the conditions were going to be like once the lockdown was implemented.” INFOGRAPHIC: How citizens can report security forces