The Chinese city where the coronavirus epidemic first broke out, Wuhan, ended a two-month lockdown on Wednesday, but a northern town started restricting the movement of its residents amid concerns of a second wave of infections in mainland China. China sealed off Wuhan, a city of 11 million people, in late January to stop the spread of the virus. Over 50 000 people in Wuhan caught the virus, and more than 2 500 of them died, about 80% of all deaths in China, according to official figures. The virus has since become a global pandemic that has infected over 1.4 million people and killed 82 000, wreaking havoc on the global economy as governments worldwide imposed sweeping lockdowns to rein in its spread. Restrictions in Wuhan have eased in recent days as the capital of Hubei province reported just three new confirmed infections in the past 21 days and only two new infections in the past fortnight. But even as people leave the city, new imported cases in the northern province of Heilongjiang surged to a daily high of 25, fuelled by an influx of infected travellers arriving from Russia, which shares a land border with the province. Suifenhe City in Heilongjiang restricted the movement of its citizens on Wednesday in a similar fashion to that of Wuhan. Residents must stay in residential compounds and one person from a family can leave once every three days to buy necessities and must return on the same day, said state-run CCTV. In Jiaozhou City in the eastern province of Shandong therisk level had risen from low to medium, according to a post on an official website, but it gave no further details. A county in central China with a population of about 600 000 went into a partial lockdown on April 1 following several new infections, including at least two asymptomatic cases. Leaving Wuhan Around 55 000 people are expected to leave Wuhan by train on Wednesday. More than 10 000 travellers have left the city by plane so far as flights resume at Wuhan Tianhe airport. Flights to Beijing and international locations have not been restored. “I’m very happy, I’m going home today,” migrant worker Liu Xiaomin told Reuters as she stood with her suitcases inside Wuhan’s Hankou railway station, bound for Xiangyang city. Still, Wuhan residents have been urged not to leave the province, their city or even their neighbourhood unless absolutely necessary. People from Wuhan arriving in the Chinese capital Beijing will have to undergo two rounds of testing for the virus. China is maintaining strict screening protocols, concerned about any resurgence in domestic transmissions due to virus carriers who exhibit no symptoms and infected travellers arriving from overseas.