Co-operative Governance Minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma says the phased easing of coronavirus lockdown restrictions will be announced on a weekly basis. She was speaking at a COVID-19 National Command Council media briefing in Pretoria where she announced the extension and amendments of the lockdown regulations. Businesses involved in emergency repairs, stores selling hardware components, vehicle repairs and call centres of retailers and short term insurance providers will now be allowed to operate. Dlamini-Zuma says coal mines are expected to continue supplying coal for Eskom. She also says plumbing and electricity services will be allowed. ” When we do stop the lockdown we cannot do it abruptly. There will be measures that remain beyond the lockdown. We have also agreed that the mines must start operating. They’ll start operating at 50% and then the minister through directions will ramp them up to full capacity. There must be screening and testing of the miners. If you have a burst pipe or something goes wrong with the electricity, you should be able to call a plumber or electrician, that also is now opened up.” In the video below Minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma announces amendments of lockdown regulations:  Dlamini-Zuma has again stressed that the transport and sale of liquor during the lockdown is banned. ” In the amendments, we are stressing the prohibition of the transportation of liqour. The only alcohol that is allowed to be transported is the one that is used for commercial purposes for our sanitizers and health related issues, but liqour that we drink is not allowed to be exported in a same way that it is not allowed to be sold .” The country will remain on lockdown for at least another two weeks. Below are the latest coronavirus cases:  Loading… (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));