For the first time since the dawn of democracy, the Christian community in South Africa has to celebrate Easter in isolation. All mass Holy gatherings have been cancelled as the country is under a nationwide lockdown till the end of April. These measures have been put in place to curb the spread of the coronavirus (COVID-19).  As many commemorate Easter under these trying times, President Cyril Ramaphosa and leaders of various political parties have sent their message of hope to citizens. The Easter period for many Christians means remembering the crucifixion of Jesus Christ with mass gatherings and fellowship. In a virtual Good Friday service, The President Ramaphosa encouraged the nation to persevere. “The coronavirus pandemic is a heavy cross being carried on the shoulders of all of humankind. Rich and poor, young and old, black and white, men and women suffer under its weight. But the message of Easter is also one of hope, of recovery, of triumph and of rebirth. We have the utmost confidence that the measures we have taken, of declaring a national state of disaster and of imposing a lockdown, have been correct and absolutely necessary. Since the lockdown began, the rate of identified new cases has slowed.” ANC Secretary General Ace Magashule says that this is a time to pray for the vulnerable. “This is the time to pray for the vulnerable. This is the time to pray for those who have no food, no shelter, and this is the time to pray for peace; this is the time to fight coronavirus. We want to say happy Easter weekend to all the Christians.”  DA interim leader, John Steenhuisen, says the lessons of Jesus Christ are needed now more than before. “Perhaps now more than in years before, the lessons that our Lord Jesus Christ has left to us as his followers of peace, of tolerance, of compassion are now needed more than ever before. ” COPE Spokesperson Dennis Bloem has urged South Africans not to despair as the country will beat coronavirus. IFP president Velenkosini Hlabisa has urged South Africans to stay at home. “As South Africans, the best we can do is to stay at home, worship at home and celebrate the Easter weekend in our respective homes.” Former IFP leader, Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi, urged citizens to abide by the lockdown rules. “The whole world is in lockdown and indeed at this time, all of us should be introspective and abide by the rules of lockdown.” ATM president Vuyolwethu Zungula says people do not need to be in stadiums to worship God. “It’s important for us to understand that God is a spirit and those that worship him, can worship him in spirit and in truth. Therefore we do not need to be in stadiums to worship God.” EFF National Spokesperson Delisiwe Ngwenya has encouraged Christians to practice social distancing. “Accordingly, due to the necessity for social distancing; all pilgrims across the world have been discontinued breaking historic traditions of human fellowship. Christians have to stay at home and not remember the messiah through fellowship.” FF+ leader Pieter Groenewald has asked people to pray for the country and the future. UDM leader Bantu Holomisa wished everyone a Happy Easter. “The UDM wants to wish you all a happy Easter. We want to thank all religious leaders to adhere to the regulations.” NFP Spokesperson Simo Mkhwanazi encouraged Christians not to gather in celebration of the Easter weekend. Ramaphosa and political parties alike have called for South Africans to unite through this period. In the video below, SA political party leaders offer messages of hope for the Easter weekend. 