Minister in the Presidency Jackson Mthembu says the national state of disaster remains in place and South Africans are to adhere to the lockdown restrictions. From the first of May the country moves from level 5 to level 4 of the lockdown, which will see some industries reopen such as agriculture and food. Government has put out a request for public comment on the Risk Adjusted-Strategy before midday on Monday. South Africans will still have to remain at home except to go out for food or medicine and it will be mandatory to wear a mask when you leave your residence. Mthembu says even the industries that will reopen will not operate at 100% of staff capacity. “Companies as they open they will not open with 100% employees some will be 50% some will be 20%. The most hurdles to our lives remain. Those that are not going at work are those that are going to buy food get medicine so we are not consulting on those restrictions we are in particular requesting South Africans to focus on level 4 that we will be getting to on the first of May what is their take on the proposals by government,” he says. In the video below, Minister Mthembu reiterates call for adherence to lockdown rules:  Call for public comments Mthembu has urged all South Africans to submit their comments on government’s Risk Adjusted-Strategy to relax some parts of the coronavirus lockdown before Monday’s deadline. The draft framework can be accessed on the website sacoronavirus.co.za. All comments must be submitted via email to lockdowncomments@cogta.gov.za. Mthembu says the lockdown will also enable the health sector to mobilise for the coronavirus peak in a few months. “Look at the other levels level three what are we bringing in level two, level one. Our health facilities might not be at that level that we require it to be so these lockdowns also gives us an opportunity as a country to improve the capacity in our health institutions. At some stage whether in July whether in September or October the infections will peak in or country this is the reality.”