Christians in the Northern Cape say this Easter weekend will not be the same without the annual church services. Churches were forced to close their doors when President Cyril Ramaphosa declared a national lockdown which aims to curb the spread of the coronavirus. Churches are not essential services. The Easter weekend is the important event in the christian calendar celebrated and observed globally.  The weekend starts on Thursday until Monday. This year, christians will have to celebrate the ritual at home. “Even though it is a sad situation, we see it as an opportunity to show people that it is not the building that makes the church. I really miss it, I miss singing the relevant songs for this Passover. it is the time of the year that we really look forward to, it is really sad that we cannot celebrate Easter this year,” says one of the Christians. Apostle Gavin Biegnaar from the George Community Church says they will worship virtually – as a means to adhere to the president’s call for everyone to stay at home. Biegnaar says: “The church operates as a family. Coming together for fellowship is very important to the church because of social distancing, the church had to adapt. We are now doing church on social media, a trying time for the church, a challenging time and yet we will overcome.” Believers say they will not allow this Easter weekend go to waste, “Jesus did not die on the cross to be downgraded by a virus and luckily for us, our church is continuing to spread the gospel through social media. Our church also has a channel on TV so we are going to prepare normal for church and gather in our lounge in front of the TV.” Despite it being a testing time for most Christians, the sector has acknowledged that it is everyone’s responsibly to fight against the spread of the global pandemic. The number of infections in the country currently stands at 1 934 with 18 deaths recorded. Graphic below illustrates protective measures against COVID-19:  Loading… (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));
In the video below, President Cyril Ramaphosa joins virtual Good Friday Service: 