The Independent Communications Authority of South Africa( ICASA) has allocated the number (111) for use during the COVID-19 pandemic for emergencies. ICASA says it is engaging with the Department of Health and the Department of Communications to get a plan for routing the number. It says the number will be used for national emergency services. The number has been allocated to operate during the National State of Disaster. ICASA spokesperson, Paseka Maleka, says the emergency number can be accessed via calls and SMSes. “The service (111) is being harmonised in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. This is mainly for COVID-19 national emergency services. The COVID-19 national emergency service will be accessed via call or short message services through that (111). In terms of our regulations, that code should not be charged by the network operators.” Meanwhile, the Democratic Alliance (DA) announced on 1 April that it has opened a WhatsApp line where people can report police and military abuse during the lockdown. Party interim leader John Steenhuisen encouraged citizens to report abuse of civil rights by police, the SANDF and security personnel. “In response to the various assaults and civil liberties that South African have witnessed in the cause of the last few days and the fact that Parliament is not sitting at the moment, the Speaker of the National Assembly is yet to respond to our request for the creation of an ad-hoc committee. The DA has set up a dedicated WhatsApp line as well as an email address where citizens, whose civil rights or the right of the citizens are abused by overzealous SAPS or SANDF or security personnel, are encouraged to report these. So we can make sure we escalate them both within the SANDF and IPID to ensure that action is taken against members who do not follow the requirement of what professional policing looks like in constitutional country underpinned by the bill of rights.”  More COVID-19 cases Health Minister Dr Zweli Mkhize has announced that another seven deaths from coronavirus have been confirmed, bringing the total number of deaths to 34. He also says the total number of COVID-19 cases in the country stands at 2 506. Breakdown of latest COVD-19 stats below:  Mkhize says most of those who died had underlying health conditions and were older than 50. He also says the sudden increase in deaths is because authorities had to verify fatalities reported in the last few days. Mkhize has urged people to continue to stay at home. In the video below, Dr Zweli Mkhize announces latest stats: 