As Zimbabwe commemorated 40 years of independence on Saturday, there were mixed feelings of fear and joy among citizens.  For the first time, there was no major public event to mark the anniversary due to the national lockdown currently in place to curb the coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak. The festivities were limited to a television address by President Emmerson Mnangagwa. “The reality of the COVID-19 pandemic is seeing us endure a necessary lockdown in our homes. Although we are physically separated, we are united in spirit. The time to celebrate together shall come. For our founding fathers, the gallant heroes or heroines, the patriotic thing to do was to fight for our freedom. Today our task, in relation to COVID-19, is to stay at home.”  ZANU-PF Youth League leader Tendai Chirau agrees the lockdown is necessary to curb the spread of COVID-19. “We are used to having a very big audience where we go to a stadium where there is funfair; we listen to the president, people are dressed to kill. This year, it is unfortunate that because of this pandemic, which has affected the globe and also the nation, we are confined at home. The feeling is not the same, but we are in a war situation so we have to keep ourselves safe and the lockdown is to our advantage. It is in the interest of our security. So, this is an unusual situation.” Despite being independent, the last 40 years have not been easy for Zimbabweans. Africa’s former bread basket is struggling to return to its former economic glory and COVID-19 brought economic pressure on an already struggling economy. Business leaders have called on President Mnangagwa to not extend the lockdown in fear of a total collapse. Through social media, Zimbabweans reflected on how a united nation defeated their greatest enemy. They posted their wish for a turnaround of the country’s soci0economic status.    In the video below, Zimbabwe celebrates 40 years of independence:  Zimbabwe formally overcame British Colonial rule in 1980, denouncing the name Rhodesia and becoming a new African state.