The Democratic Alliance (DA) in Gauteng has called on Acting Social Development MEC Panyaza Lesufi to investigate the alleged theft of food parcels in Ekurhuleni. It is alleged that a truck delivered food parcels at Smart Angels Creche in Greenfields on Thursday evening, and the food was stolen overnight. The DA’s Refiloe Nt’sekhe says, “The community had already queued up waiting for food parcels. As you can imagine people are hungry this time. We are now saying MEC Lesufi should really come out and investigate this because people cannot have food parcels being stolen under their noses. It is important that whoever is guilty is brought to book and must face the full might of the law because it’s really, really disgusting that people can’t have food and somebody feels entitled to stealing that from them.” In the video below, Gauteng Premier David Makhura says the provincial government reaches 2000 households daily:  Meanwhile, some residents of Colville in Kimberley say they are angry after promises that they would be given food parcels were not fulfilled. The community say they are dependent on social grants, which are not enough to feed entire families during the lockdown period. “I need that food parcel because I have a child. I have a family at home. I have a big responsibility. They can’t even give us jobs. If they give us jobs, then we won’t need these food parcels,” says one resident. “The money we get from Government is not enough for us. We are struggling with that money. If I get that money, if I buy mealie meal and sugar, it’s finished. That’s the problem in Colville. Our children must go out and do a crime to get that food tonight on the table,” adds another resident. Below is more information about the lockdown:  Loading… (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));