South Africa has recorded 99 new coronavirus cases and 14 more deaths. The number of coronavirus cases risen to 2605 from 2 506 on Wednesday. Gauteng is still leading with 969 cases. In a statement, the Department of Health has also confirmed that the number of COVID-19 related deaths has jumped to 48 from 34. ” It is with regret that we inform the public that the COVID-19 related deaths is now 48. We note that two provinces, ie, Limpopo and Eastern Cape have also recorded their first deaths. We convey our condolences to the families. ” KwaZulu-Natal has the most number of deaths with 20. Gauteng has six deaths despite the large number of confirmed cases. While the number of confirmed cases continues to increase , the department is pleased with the number of recoveries. So far there are 903 recoveries. More than 95 000 COVID-19 tests have been conducted in South Africa.  Government relaxes lockdown regulations despite increase in coronavirus cases Meanwhile, Co-operative Governance Minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma announced the extension and amendments of the lockdown regulations earlier . She says the phased easing of coronavirus lockdown restrictions will be announced on a weekly basis. She was speaking at a COVID-19 National Command Council media briefing in Pretoria. Businesses involved in emergency repairs, stores selling hardware components, vehicle repairs and call centres of retailers and short term insurance providers will now be allowed to operate. Dlamini-Zuma says coal mines are expected to continue supplying coal for Eskom. She also says plumbing and electricity services will be allowed. ” When we do stop the lockdown we cannot do it abruptly. There will be measures that remain beyond the lockdown. We have also agreed that the mines must start operating. They’ll start operating at 50% and then the minister through directions will ramp them up to full capacity. There must be screening and testing of the miners. If you have a burst pipe or something goes wrong with the electricity, you should be able to call a plumber or electrician, that also is now opened up.” In the video below Minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma announces amendments to lockdown regulations:  Speaking at the same briefing, Mineral Resources Minister Gwede Mantashe says the reopening of mines will be rolled out gradually as the coronavirus lockdown continues. Most mines were required to close when the national lockdown commenced last month. Mantashe says the mines will resume operations to minimise the risk of accidents and disasters and sustain the infrastructure of productions in the mines. “In the amendment we are identifying a risk particularly in deep mines. If they are left alone for a long time, the stability of the ground gets tampered with. Gases accumulate and you may be confronted with disaster or prevalence of rockfall. ” The graphic below indicates the latest coronavirus statistics in South Africa:   Loading… (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));