Gauteng Premier David Makhura says Johannesburg has the highest number of coronavirus cases with 440 of the 782 in the province. South Africa currently has 1 845 confirmed cases with 18 deaths.  Briefing the media in Ormonde, south of Johannesburg, on Thursday afternoon, Makhura said the focus now is on screening, so they can identify people who need to be tested. He says the province has improved on tracing the people who have been in contact with those that have tested positive, with a 90% success rate. “So, if Gauteng is the epicentre of COVID-19 in the republic. Johannesburg is the epicentre of COVID-19 in Gauteng with 440 cases followed by Ekurhuleni with 111 cases, Tshwane with 90 cases, West Rand with 12 cases and Sedibeng with six cases. Now we have an additional 123 cases that are called allocated.”  Gauteng Health Department calls for donations of protective gear On Sunday, the Gauteng Health Department called for donations of Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) and ventilators. The department says these donations will help supplement government resources and will be used at special sites allocated for COVID-19 patients. This is after workers’ union, Nehawu, took the national and provincial health departments to court on Tuesday for allegedly failing to provide protective gear and equipment to health workers. There have been reported shortages of gloves, masks, ventilators which Nehawu argues puts the lives of health workers at risk. The Gauteng Health Department’s Kwara Kekana said on Sunday that the donations will supplement government resources. “We call on those who wish to contribute to the fight against COVID-19 to donate PPEs and ventilators. These donations will supplement government resources and will be used at special sites that are being put in place to house COVID-19 patients. The PPEs, such as gloves and masks, play an important role in minimizing exposure to the spread of infections while the ventilators assist for the breathing process when the virus has caused damage to the lungs.” Gauteng government rolls out sanitisation solution programme The Gauteng government on Wednesday rolled-out its province-wide Sanitisation solution programme in the fight against COVID-19. As part of the ongoing efforts to help curb and combat the spread of the coronavirus, Human Settlements MEC Lebogang Maile, launched the programme in Alexandra, north of Johannesburg. On Monday, the Gauteng Health Department confirmed that there was a confirmed case of the virus in the township.  The sanitisation solution seeks to propel Section 24 of the Constitution by ensuring that measures are put in place to protect and safeguard the rights of citizens against a harmful environment, which could arise out of the COVID-19 outbreak. The Gauteng province-wide sanitisation solution will comprise of the Decontamination of Public Areas, Fogging of Public Buildings and Direct Household Sanitisation. Hand sanitisers will also be distributed to residents at the Hellen Joseph Hostel, Stjwetla informal settlement and Pan African Mall. In the video below, the Provincial Command Council gives an update on COVID-19 in Gauteng: 