Seven people have been arrested in connection with a robbery at a tavern in Briardene in Durban where alcohol and television sets were taken during the lockdown. It is alleged that four men tied up a security guard before cutting the burglar bars to get into the tavern. Police spokesperson Jay Naicker says the suspects were arrested not long afterwards in an informal settlement where they were drinking. “The police officers immediately searched the area and spotted the men consuming alcohol in the informal settlement. With further investigation they directed police officers to a house where some of the stolen property was found hidden. Police seized liquor and other items found in the suspects’ possession. Seven suspects aged between 23 and 60 were placed under arrest for robbery. More arrests can be expected as police investigations unfold. The men are expected to appear at the Durban Magistrate’s Court later today ( Thursday).” Meanwhile, Co-operative Governance Minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, has again stressed that the transport and sale of liquor during the lockdown is banned. Dlamini-Zuma was speaking at a COVID-19 National Command Council media briefing in Pretoria where she announced the extension and amendments of the lockdown regulations. In the video below Minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma announces amendments to lockdown regulations:  Businesses involved in emergency repairs, stores selling hardware components, vehicle repairs and call centres of retailers and short term insurance providers will now be allowed to operate. However, Dlamini-Zuma says the transportation and sale of liquor remain banned. ” In the amendments we are stressing the prohibition of the transportation of liquor. The only alcohol that is allowed to be transported is the one that is used for commercial purposes for our sanitizers and health related issues, but liquor that we drink is not allowed to be exported in a same way that it is not allowed to be sold .” The graphic below outlines SA government’s response to COVID-19:  Loading… (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));