Brand South Africa is investigating allegations that a member of their Board of Trustees Tebogo Mamorobela, violated COVID-19 regulations by hosting a birthday party. Mamorobela who is also a Councillor at the Makhado local municipality in Vhembe, in Limpopo, was arrested together with two friends.   The African National Congress (ANC) has suspended her from partaking in party activities, and recommended that her one month salary be docked. Mamorobela is out on R1000 bail. In a statement, Chairperson of Brand South Africa, Thandi Tobius has condemned the alleged action by Mamorobela of breaking lockdown regulations. Other high profile lockdown violations. President Cyril Ramaphosa placed Communications and Digital Technologies Minister Stella Ndabeni- Abrahams  on special leave for two months, one month of which will be unpaid. This follows the revelation on social media that Ndabeni- Abrahams visited the home of former Higher Education and Training Deputy Minister Mduduzi Manana, who hosted a lunch, despite regulations prohibiting social visits. The Economic Freedom Fighters and Democratic Alliance are among voices that called for her to be sacked from the Cabinet, watch video below:  ANC Limpopo councillor. The ANC in Limpopo promised to act decisively on the conduct of the party’s ward councillor arrested for allegedly violating lockdown regulations in Polokwane. Councillor Jack Legodi, together with five other people, were allegedly having a party when police arrested them. They were granted R1 000 bail each after appearing before the Polokwane Magistrate’s Court later on Wednesday. ANC Provincial Spokesperson Donald Selamolela says they condemned the councillor’s alleged conduct. “We are very, very much disappointed and we want to condemn the conduct of the councillor in question. We want to assure our people that the ANC will be acting decisively on the conduct of that particular councillor in a very, very short space of time. We want to take this opportunity to continue to plead with people make sure that they stick to the lockdown regulations.”