President Cyril Ramaphosa says he is confident that South Africans will continue to obey the rules and regulations of the lockdown as the country enters Level-4 from midnight. There will be a slight easing of restrictions with people being allowed to exercise between six and nine in the morning – among other things. Ramaphosa says the country has been doing well in curbing the spread of coronavirus. The President says a united approach will yield positive results that will eventually see life getting back to normal. He spoke to the media in Kempton Park, where he received a donation of six million face masks from media company, Naspers South Africa. “We hope that our people will continue to cooperate to make sure that we do defeat coronavirus. I have confidence that our people will remain disciplined, and will remain focused as we go into this level. This is a very difficult time for the people of our country, but I’m confident that working together we will all be able to come out of COVID-19.”  Gender-based violence during lockdown: President Ramaphosa has also noted with concern the rising cases of gender-based violence during the COVID-19 lockdown. An Interim Steering Committee has been established to take forward key actions listed in the declaration that flowed from the 2018 Presidential Summit on GBVF. In the video below, President Cyril Ramaphosa meets with the GBVF committee:  Social Development Lindiwe Zulu earlier said the number of gender-based violence cases in the country is increasing as the lockdown continues. Ramaphosa says more needs to be done to address this challenge. “Today, we are marking the milestones in our fight to end gender-based violence against women and children. South Africa as all of us know is one of the most unsafe places, gender-based violence impacts black and white, young and old, rich and poor. The protest that we all witnessed too was in many ways clear call from the women of our country that more needs to be done to combat the scourge of gender-based violence.” Below is an infographic outlining restrictions during Level 4 lockdown:   Loading… (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));