Botswana’s parliament has endorsed President Mokgwetsi Masisi’s request to extend the state of emergency to six months. The country is currently on a 28-day lockdown. Masisi says this will help curb the spread of COVID-19 in the landlocked country. However, members of the opposition have raised their dissatisfaction, saying that it will essentially give President Masisi more powers, which may lead him to abuse the rights of Batswana.   Botswana has confirmed seven more cases of COVID-19, bringing the total to 13.  A concern has been raised that with its limited resources, Botswana’s medical resources will not be able to cope should the number of cases increase further.   President Mokgweetsi Masisi explains: “We have been told how many hospitals and other resources we have in the country. We know that we are less developed as a country. We are not like other developed countries. Are we saying we would rather bury people, or save lives while we still can?” The opposition remains sceptical, Dumelang Saleshando of the Umbrella For Democratic Change explains: ” Director of health services, Mr Speaker, for the second time, is very clear. Let us now hear who qualifies for home quarantine. We will be advised on what to do, if we have this virus, so that we don’t infect others. Some of us might have been infected already.” Tshekedi Khama of Botswana Patriotic Front says Masisi cannot be trusted. “His excellency flouted his own quarantine time. He flouted his own regulations against travel, to Namibia. If the fourth industrial revolution, sir has already started, you would have communicated by cellphone, by smart phone.” On the second day of the special sitting of Botswana’s parliament, it was reported that a nurse that screened MPs for the virus tested positive. As a result, MP’s will be quarantined for the next 14 days. Botswana Director for Pubic Health Dr Malaki Tshipayagae explains: “All of us will have to be quarantined. Those who would opt for self-quarantine can do so, as long as they stay far from their families. Those who are unable to self-quarantine, will be provided with a mandatory quarantine place.” This is the second time that president Masisi has been quarantined, within a month. He was released from his 14-day quarantine last week, after visiting Namibia for the inauguration of his counterpart Hage Geingob, last month.