The African National Congress (ANC) in Limpopo says it will act decisively on the conduct of the party’s ward councillor arrested for allegedly violating lockdown regulations in Polokwane. Councillor Jack Legodi, together with other five people, were allegedly having a party on Wednesday morning when police arrested them. They were granted R1 000 bail each after appearing before the Polokwane Magistrate Court later on Wednesday.  However, police refused to give more details on their next court date. ANC Provincial Spokesperson Donald Selamolela says they condemn the councillor’s alleged conduct. “We are very, very much disappointed and we want to condemn the conduct of the councillor in question. We want to assure our people that the ANC will be acting decisively on the conduct of that particular councillor in a very, very short space of time. We want to take this opportunity to continue to plead with people make sure that they stick to the lockdown regulations.” Municipal Spokesperson Thipa Selala says they are gathering facts for the Speaker to decide on the matter. “The municipality is pursuing the matter with the police to get full facts once the facts are established and the report is forwarded to the Speaker of the council. The Speaker will follow due process in terms of the legislation that regulate council matters, including code of conduct of councilors. Now that the council cannot deal with the matter due to lockdown, the Speaker may refer the matter to the MEC of COGTA.” Police Spokesperson Vish Naidoo says they will not be commenting on individual cases of people arrested for contravening lockdown regulations. He says a report on the cases will be released at a later stage. On Wednesday, President Cyril Ramaphosa placed Minister of Communications and Digital Technologies Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams on a special two-month leave, one of which will be unpaid, for violating the rules. In the video below, Ramaphosa’s Spokesperson talks about the Ndabeni-Abrahams matter:   