The Department of Health has announced an increase of COVID-19 cases from 4 793 reported on Monday to 4 996.  Minister Zweli Mkhize says the number of deaths has also increased by three, to 93. The total recoveries are now 2073. This equates to 2166 closed cases (Recoveries + Deaths) and 2830 active cases. Mkhize says the lockdown has helped in reducing the spread of the virus. “South Africa has not seen the problem of a rapid rise of infections,” says Mkhize. On Monday doctors from Cuba arrived in the country to help in the fight against the virus. Minister Mkhize sheds more light on getting help from Cuba, “We have gone out to seek assistance from Cuba and China. It’s in this context we have yesterday received 217 doctors of various training and professions. They are augmenting our resources. They have a strength in community medicine and their presence is very helpful.” In the video below, Minister Mkhize briefs the media about how the country is dealing with the virus:  SA prepares for Level 4 lockdown The doctors arrive as the country prepares for Level 4 lockdown as of May, 1. More than 1.5 million workers are expected to head back to work early next month. Many workers were feeling the economic effects of the lockdown as they rely on their jobs to provide for their families. Analysts say this is the right move by the government, as the COVID-19 pandemic continues to cause havoc across the globe. “The lockdown is still there. There will just be a few changes, but what is important is that there will be more people going to work and more companies opening up. That’s basically the major change. The rest, more or less, remains the same,” said Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs Minister Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma. She emphasized that the nationwide lockdown will continue in South Africa. Dlamini-Zuma has cautioned companies who are to re-open to make sure all the rules of the lockdown are adhered to in the workplace. In the video below, Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma outlines Level 4 lockdown regulations:   The graphic below shows more information about Level 4 lockdown :   Loading… (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));