The North West provincial government says it has started to roll out water tanks to all communities around the province that have water supply challenges. Minister of Water and Sanitation Lindiwe Sisulu last week said her department has procured about 4 1000 water tanks for all provinces, as part of efforts to curb the spread of the highly contagious coronavirus. North West MEC for Local Government Gordon Kegakilwe says they have received 600 water tanks for the entire province. He says already Madibeng has received jojo tanks and water tankers also started arriving yesterday… “Kgetleng for an example has already received the jojo tanks, Moses Kotane has already received their own…” “So you can see they have started from Bojanala and they are coming down to the other areas of Ngaka Modiri Molema right up to Dr Ruth Segomotsi Mompati. So we are going to assist these municipalities with water,” says Kegakilwe.  COVID-19 will be difficult to manage if it spreads to townships The Gauteng Health Department has warned that the coronavirus will be difficult to fight if it spreads to the country’s townships. The department’s warning comes after five people were placed under quarantine in the densely-populated Alexandra township north of Johannesburg after being in close contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19. The Alexandra resident disregarded instructions to remain in isolation after he tested positive and travelled to Limpopo where he was arrested. The township is one of the areas in the country where some residents are not complying with the lockdown regulations. The department’s spokesperson Kwara Kekana says, “The Department can confirm that there are five people who are currently under quarantine after being in close contact with a confirmed case. The confirmed case, tested and was instructed to remain under self- isolation while awaiting results.” “Upon positive confirmation of results, our team of tracers working with law enforcement agencies tracked the confirmed case to Limpopo. He had disregarded an instruction and travelled outside of the province last week before the lockdown. He is currently under isolation in a health facility in Limpopo,” adds Kekana. 