The recovery rate of COVID-19 patients in the Eastern Cape has continued to rise as 14 of the 16 patients quarantined at Glen Grey hospital have recovered and been discharged. Eastern Cape Health Department spokesperson Sizwe Kupelo says the other two patients will spend seven more days in hospital, while receiving treatment. There are 57 people being treated in hospitals across the province. Kupelo says the MEC for Health Sindiswa Gomba is pleased about the recoveries. He says, “We have recorded over 40 recoveries, the exact number of those will be announced by the national minister at an appropriate time. We are concerned about the lack of compliance with the lockdown, as this is aiding the virus…” “We urge people to play their role to flatten the curve of the coronavirus,” added Kupelo.   Loading… (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); SA’s COVID-19 cases rise to 4 793, three more deaths Meanwhile, the number of COVID-19 cases has risen from 4546 on Sunday to 4793. The Western Cape has the most cases with 1737, followed by Gauteng with 1353 cases. A statement released by the Department of Health reveals that the Northern Cape and Mpumalanga have the least number of cases with 17 and 26 cases, respectively. So far, there 178 470 tests have been conducted, 9 827 of which were conducted in the last 24 hours. The Department of Health also confirmed the death of three more people, two from the Western Cape and one from KwaZulu-Natal. The total number of deaths stands at 90. “The cases were: a 79-year-old male who presented with shortness of breath and chest pain. His comorbidities included diabetes, hypertension, chronic kidney disease and cardiac disease (WC). A 58-year-old male who presented with imminent cardiovascular arrest. He was a person living with HIV and had obesity. A 54-year-old male who presented with respiratory distress. He had underlying diabetes.” The department has conveyed its condolences to the families of the deceased and has thanked healthcare workers who treated the deceased patients. Meanwhile, officials from the department participated in a virtual ‘grand ward round’ with over 400 participants including provincial MECs, HODs, clinicians, epidemiological and infectious disease experts. “We discussed some interesting cases and unusual presentations. As we continue to learn more about COVID-19, it is especially important to stay in touch with the frontline workers to better understand the inner workings of treating individual patients. It was a fascinating session that has certainly contributed immensely to the body of work that ensures increased medical precision.”   Amampondomise revive old burial tradition to combat COVID-19 The Amampondomise nation is reviving an historical cultural practise to fight the spread of COVID-19. The nation has resolved to postpone all funerals and only do burials according to the ukuqusheka (private funeral , attended by close family members) tradition. This means a deceased is buried by close family and the dignified funeral is then held at a later date. Mass funerals are in violation of lockdown regulations and are said to be the cause of the rapid spread of COVID-19 in the Eastern Cape. Government raise concerns about the role of funerals in the transmission of COVID-19:  There are currently 535 cases in the Eastern Cape. Ten deaths have been reported. The Amampondomise kingdom is the first in the Eastern Cape to suspend funerals. This decision was not taken lightly. King Luzuko Matiwane says: “We have a pandemic in our doorstep, we have seen what it is doing in Port st Johns so we are appealing to all Amampondomise to suspend these funerals, at a later stage we will continue once everything is ok.” By practising ukuqusheka all lockdown regulations will be adhered to. Once the lockdown is lifted then proper services will be accorded to those buried under ukuqusheka (private funeral , attended by close family members). Amampondomise Kingdom Spokesperson Chief Bakhanyisele Rhanuka says: “It is required that only immediate family members attend and there’s no gathering and there’s no service or programme.” The move by the Amampondomise is welcomed. Contralesa Secretary in Eastern Cape Mkhanyiseli Dudumayo says: “This is a great initiative and we urge other kingdoms and also people to follow suit as this will save their lives.” The kingdom also called on its people to suspend other traditional events like weddings and home comings. Funerals in Eastern Cape a major concern when it comes to the spreading of COVID-19:   Loading… (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));