The University of KwaZulu-Natal and the Human Sciences Research Council (HSRC) have launched a joint survey investigating the impact of coronavirus (COVID-19) on healthcare workers. Across the world, with South Africa being no exception, many healthcare workers have been infected with the virus. The study seeks to understand how the virus is affecting South African healthcare workers both physically and emotionally. Healthcare workers are urged to participate in the online survey. HSRC’s Dr Priscilla Reddy says the results will give government tangible evidence to enable it to develop interventions and strategies aimed at assisting healthcare workers during the pandemic. “The way the survey works is, you go into a data free website that’s on the HSRC website, you click on it and you fill a core set of questions and then depending on your occupational category, you are directed to the whichever one suits your training. To date, we have over 6 000 entries  – you know whatever programmes or interventions the government, the private sector, the NGO sector want to develop. It can be based on some evidence rather than the anecdotal stories that we hear through the media.” Simplified breakdown of COVID-19 in SA below:  Meanwhile, more than a 100 health professionals and patients have been placed under quarantine at the Pietersburg Hospital in Polokwane, Limpopo. This after they were in contact with a doctor who has tested positive for COVID-19. Health MEC Phophi Ramathuba says they placed the staff under quarantine  after the doctor informed the department of his results. The Pietersburg Hospital in Polokwane is one of the hospitals that have been designated to admit COVID-19 patients in Limpopo. It is also one of two referral hospitals in the province, with many specialised healthcare services offered there. The COVID-19 related death toll in South Africa has now risen to 50. This is an increase of two from Thursday’s figure of 48. The Health Ministry has also announced that the number of confirmed cases now stands at 2 783. Breakdown of latest COVID-19 stats below: 