Government has amended the lockdown regulations to allow clothing shops to sell baby clothes and some necessities during the nationwide lockdown. Earlier this week, the Tebeila Institute of Leadership and the African Institute for Human Rights and Constitutional Litigation filed an urgent application at the Constitutional Court. They were challenging the closure of shops which sell baby necessities. President Cyril Ramaphosa extended the nationwide lockdown by further two weeks. Lawyer Shadrack Tebeila says they welcome the amendment. “Tebeila Institute and African Institute of Human of Rights welcome the outcome of the Constitutional court and we are applauding the Constitutional court for its consideration of the issues of this importance currently under the lockdown shops and businesses including clothing stores which were previously closed on the basis that they are not selling essential goods they are now allowed to open.” South Africa has recorded 1934 coronavirus infections and 18 deaths.  CEO of South African Tourism, Sisa Ntshona, says they have allocated R200 million relief package for small businesses in the industry that have been affected by COVID-19. Ntshona says to qualify for the fund businesses should not have a turnover of more than R5 million per annum and have been in business for at least one year. Businesses asking for relief will also be assisted by SA tourism on a case-by-case basis. SA tourism says they are already receiving thousands of applications and will only accept online applications. Below is a graph of the lockdown economic measures:  Loading… (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); The President says there’s compelling evidence that the lockdown is working. “If we end the lockdown too soon or too abruptly we risk a massive and uncontrollable resurgence of the disease we risk reversing the gains that we have made over the last few weeks and rendering meaningless the great sacrifices that we have all made. Fellow South Africans this evening I stand before you to ask you to endure a little longer. In the video below, President Cyril Ramaphosa addresses the nation: