Former United States President Barack Obama has endorsed his former Vice President, Joe Biden, to be President of the United States.   Obama’s key endorsement comes a day after Senator Bernie Sanders too endorsed his presidential rival after dropping out of the race last week. The choreographed announcements are seen as an effort by the Democratic Party to unite their factions well ahead of the November election against President Donald Trump. Obama said the country needed the leadership of someone with the qualities of Biden. The 44th President of the United States has remained on the sidelines for most of the nomination contest. But as the stars began aligning for the former Vice President, Obama emerged from the shadows with a full-throated endorsement.  “The kind of leadership that is guided by knowledge and experience, honesty and humility, empathy and grace. That kind of leadership doesn’t just belong in our state capitals and mayor’s offices, it belongs in the White House.” ”And that’s why I’m so proud to endorse Joe Biden for President of the United States. Choosing Joe to be my Vice President was one of the best decisions I ever made and he became a close friend and I believe Joe has all the qualities we need in a President right now,” explains Obama. He praised Biden for his role in rebuilding the economy from the great recession when they took office in 2009, arguing that the presumptive democratic nominee was well versed in putting the interests of others above his own. “Joe has the time and experience to guide us through one of our darkest times and heal us through a long recovery. And I know he’ll surround himself with good people, experts scientists, military officials who actually know how to run the government and care about doing a good job running the government,” adds Obama. In a move to unite the party, he spoke favorably of the ideas championed by Bernie Sanders as critical to moving America in a direction of progress and hope. “Bernie’s an American original, a man who dedicated his life to giving voice to working people’s hopes, dreams and frustrations. He and I haven’t always agreed on everything but we’ve always shared a conviction that we have to make America a fairer, more just, more equitable society.” Speaking a day earlier, the progressive firebrand also endorsed his longtime rival urging Democrats, Republicans and Independents to unite to ensure that Donald Trump remained a one-term President. “I will do all that I can to see that, that happens. Joe, I know that there is an enormous responsibility on your shoulders right now. And it’s imperative that all of us work together to do what has to be done, not only in this moment, but beyond this moment, in the future of this country,” explains  Sanders. A statement from the Trump campaign says Obama’s support came only after his former Vice President was the only candidate left in the Democratic field; calling Biden a bad candidate whom the incumbent will destroy. In the video below, Former US President Barrack Obama endorses his preferred candidate:  