The President has announced a one-third salary cut for himself, the Deputy President, Ministers, their deputies and Premiers. The money will go into the Solidarity Fund that has been set up to fight the coronavirus pandemic. While addressing the nation on Thursday evening, Ramaphosa said this will apply for the next three months. “In support of this effort we have decided that the president, the deputy president ministers and deputy ministers will each take a one third cut in their salaries for the next three months this portion of their salaries will be donated to the solidarity fund. We are calling on other public office bearers and executives of large companies to make similar gesture and further increase the reach of this national effort,” says Ramaphosa. Below is the President’s live address:  The Cabinet’s move will boost already existing government measures aimed at cushioning South Africans from the impact of COVID-19, which were announced before the country went on lockdown. These include tax relief measures for small businesses and the Unemployment Insurance Fund, which will help employees who are not able to work during the lockdown period. Telecommunications giant, Vodacom, has also donated 20 000 cellphones to health workers who will be screening and testing South Africans for the virus.   South African business moguls, which include the Rupert and Oppenheimer families, have each donated R1 billion to assist small businesses and their employees affected by the coronavirus pandemic. The Motsepe Foundation has also pledged R1 billion in the fight against the pandemic in South Africa. South Africa is currently on a national lockdown, which will end at the end of April. President Ramaphosa announced the lockdown’s extension on Thursday night. “If we end the lockdown too soon or too abruptly we risk a massive and uncontrollable resurgence of the disease we risk reversing the gains that we have made over the last few weeks and rendering meaningless the great sacrifices that we have all made fellow South Africans this evening I stand before you to ask you to endure a little longer,” he said. The number of infections in the country currently stands at 1 934 with 18 deaths recorded. The video below, details some of the economic interventions that have been announced by government:  