Limpopo MEC for Transport and Community Safety Mavhungu Lerule-Ramakhanya says more than 700 people have been arrested for the alleged violation of lockdown regulations during Easter period in the province. Lerule-Ramakhanya and MEC for Health Dr Phophi Ramathuba were monitoring adherence of the national disaster lockdown rules and regulations at Elim and Louis Trichardt in the Makhado municipal area. Lerule-Ramakhanya says lockdown is playing a  pivotal role in reducing  road crashes. MEC Lerule-Ramakhanya has expressed concern about the high number of people, mostly in the rural areas, who are continuing to flout the nationwide lockdown rules and regulations. The provincial command council team has embarked on a series of awareness campaigns to monitor adherence. MEC Lerule-Ramakhanya says they are serious about the issue of compliance. “Last year, you will remember, as a department, by this time we were talking about 30 fatalities here. Now, we are still on one. On the violation of lockdown in terms of individuals – I’m not referring to the shops that we are closing –  individuals that are not complying, we have arrested  about 700  since the operation that we did with the premier. So today, I’m with the MEC for Health, you can see that we are indeed serious on the issues of compliance, but the message is stay at home.” Some residents at Elim outside Louis Trichardt in Limpopo say they are aware about the importance of the lockdown as it is aimed at saving people’s lives. “We thank the president of our country. It  indicates that he is taking care of his people,” says one of the residents. Meanwhile, MEC for Health Dr Phophi Ramathuba has expressed appreciation for the donations of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) for the fight against COVID-19  by the donors. She has, however, encouraged the donors to make their donations at a central place rather than seeking travelling permits. “We need as many donations, many assistants as possible. We have already started to receive a number of PPEs.   Most of the people want to donate. So, we are saying to all the people, we welcome all the donations. Let them be delivered in the central point.” The authorities say more than 700 vehicles were turned away while crossing into Limpopo from other provinces. Below are some of the lockdown regulations:  Loading… (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));