A family from Tembisa in Gauteng are unable to bury their 11-year-old child as police are still unable to locate his missing head. The boy’s body was found decapitated in a field in Mayibuye, Rabie Ridge last weekend, two days after he was reported missing. In a separated incident, the body of a five-year-old was found naked at an Orange Farm tavern this week. Gauteng MEC For Community Safety Faith Mazibuko and acting MEC for Social Development Panyaza Lesufi visited both the families. Unable to receive any closure, a Tembisa family questions the mysterious murder of their 11-year-old child. He was last seen playing on the street on the 10th of April 2020. After the family reported him missing, his decapitated body was found in a field two days later. Mazibuko, who visited the family, has condemned the senseless murder, at a time when the nation should be complying with lockdown regulations. “We are all heartbroken about what happened. Unfortunately, his headless body was found in an open field. The forensics through the Department of Health are still trying to assist with the reconstruction of the body. The young boy was playing out in the street and it’s lockdown. We are urging parents, ‘please keep your children in your yard.’ No parent wants to bury a body of a child that is still missing certain parts. We hope we will be able to assist so that the head of his young chap is able to be found,” says Mazibuko. MEC Mazibuko says specialist investigators have been appointed to the case. “The case has been removed from the local police station. It is now being handled by provincial, under Captain Mabasa. He will come and brief the family about the various investigations. It’s not an ordinary murder case. A young child was beheaded. So, you need specialists,” explains Mazibuko.  Meanwhile, in a second child killing incident reported since the lockdown, the naked body a little five-year-old boy was found in a tavern in Orange Farm in Gauteng. After also visiting this family, MEC Mazibuko says she remains saddened at the gruesome and senseless killing of South Africa’s children. “Its a body of a 5-year-old, who was found in a tavern between a fridge and a counter. We don’t want to allege that it’s a muti killing. It’s people who say so. The family will also be able to share with us,” says Mazibuko. MEC Mazibuko has assured families that top investigators have been appointed to the cases. In this video below, MEC’s visit bereaved Tembisa families after children were found dead:   