Miss Universe Zozibini Tunzi says now is the time more than ever for people to unite and show each other kindness. This as the globe fights against the coronavirus. Earlier this month Tunzi was alarmed after hearing about an increase in gender-based violence reports following the start of the lockdown. This followed Police Minister Bheki Cele’s announcement that his department had received 87 000 calls related to gender-based violence. Tunzi has encouraged South Africans to support the lockdown regulations and treat each other with compassion. She says, “Now is that time to show that kindness, to show that selflessness, you know, just stop thinking about ourselves and putting other people before us, sometimes because as much as you want to go out and see people, stay at home.” Tunzi adds, “Think about the people, be selfless enough, to know that you’re not alone in the world, there are people struggling, so let’s work together in trying to help each other and just to save the world at this point, by just being home, by sharing that kindness, sharing those stories and by giving where we can.” In the video below, Zozibini Tunzi speaks about how she spends her time under lockdown:  Economic impact Reserve Bank Governor Lesetja Kganyago says the extension of the lockdown period is expected to have a severe impact on the economy, with an expected increase in job losses. His comments follow a unanimous decision by the bank’s Monetary Policy Committee to once again cut interest rates by one-percentage-point for the second time in less than a month. This brings down the repo rate to 4.25%, the lowest rate ever recorded. “South Africa’s lockdown has been extended by an additional fourteen days, bringing the total lockdown period to 35 days. Both the supply and demand side of this extension reduces growth and deepen it as businesses stay shut for longer and households with income spend less,” says Kganyago. “This will likely increase job losses with further consequences for aggregate demand. The impact will be particularly severe for small businesses and individuals with earnings in the informal sector.” In this video, reaction to South African Reserve Bank emergency interest rate cut: The graphic below gives information about coronavirus protective measures: 