The Nelson Mandela Foundation has applauded President Cyril Ramaphosa for what they describe as his decisive leadership in addressing the challenges posed by coronavirus (COVID-19). The Foundation says it supports the two-week extension of the national lockdown and urges South Africans to stay home and comply with all the regulations. The Foundation’s CEO Sello Hatang says Ramaphosa and his cabinet, especially Health Minister Zweli Mkhize have been doing a sterling job in containing the spread of the coronavirus which has so far claimed 25 lives and infected 2 173 “Their care, level of care around issues of those who have little or nothing has been particularly noted. But we also want to say to South Africans that it can never be enough to expect government to do all these things on their own. Leadership has to be demonstrated by all of us. As cooperates, individuals, as families and as communities” The graph below highlights the top stories of the second week of lockdown:  Solidarity Fund Calls are growing for other arms of the state to contribute towards the coronavirus Solidarity Fund. ANC Chief Whip Pemmy Majodina says the Chief Whips will have a virtual meeting on Tuesday to discuss how members of parliament can contribute to the Solidarity Fund. This comes as President Cyril Ramaphosa announced that the Executive and Premiers will contribute a third of their salaries to the Fund for the next three months. The money will go into the Solidarity Fund that has been set up to fight the coronavirus pandemic. While addressing the nation on Thursday evening, Ramaphosa said “In support of this effort, we have decided that the President, the Deputy President ministers and deputy ministers will each take a one-third cut in their salaries for the next three months this portion of their salaries will be donated to the solidarity fund. We are calling on other public office bearers and executives of large companies to make similar gesture and further increase the reach of this national effort.” Below is the President’s live address: 