The Limpopo Health Department is investigating allegations that nurses at Motetema Clinic, outside Groblersdal, sent a woman home with the corpse of her friend’s newborn baby. The baby, one of twins, had been born at home to a Zimbabwean mother and was certified dead on arrival at the clinic. The other child died in hospital. 24-year-old Joyce Sithole, who was seven months pregnant with twin boys, went into labour at home where neighbours assisted her. The incident happened last week. It is alleged that an ambulance was called but it did not come and another resident drove Sithole to the clinic. Sithole’s friend, Violet Muthoto, was present during the incident and accompanied them to the health facility. “I was there when she delivered two babies. Their condition was not satisfactory and we feared that one of them was not alive. We asked a motorist to take us to the clinic. When we arrived there, nurses certified one baby dead and took him to a room. They then called an ambulance.” Muthoto says the mother and remaining baby were taken to the Groblersdal Hospital. She alleges that nurses gave her the deceased baby to take home, instead of calling pathologists. “The ambulance arrived and took Sithole and her living baby to hospital. Before leaving, she was told to sign some papers so the umbilical cord could be left at the clinic. Afterwards another nurse wrapped the body in blankets and then gave it to me. I was confused but I had no choice. I’m still traumatised by the incident.” Muthoto says she alerted other residents and police were called. A resident whose identity is being protected, is unhappy about how nurses and police handled the matter. “I don’t understand why nurses gave this woman the corpse of a baby that is not hers. I’m also disappointed that the police did not come to investigate the matter or even call relevant authorities to take the body. It is fair how they treated these people?” Spokesperson for the Limpopo Health Department Neil Shikwambana says they have launched an investigation. “When the mother went to hospital with the other twin, the nurses at the clinic allegedly gave the deceased twin to the next-of-kin or the person who had accompanied the mother to the clinic, to take home with, instead of calling the forensic unit of our department to come and collect the remains of that particular kid. It is an allegation that we got from the complainant and our team there at the district is currently investigating.” Sithole and her husband declined to speak to SABC News.