The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) is calling on President Cyril Ramaphosa to dismiss the Democratic Alliance’s (DA) “murderous” proposal to resume the sale of alcohol during weekends. “It is clear the DA is a quintessential mouthpiece of the alcohol industry which demands its profit interests to trump the fight against COVID-19,” says the party. The EFF says evidence shows that the alcohol ban has borne fruit. “Medical scientists have shown that the majority of trauma cases in hospitals are alcohol-related, from road fatalities to inter-personal fights. They have also shown beyond a reasonable doubt that alcohol deteriorates the immune system,” it adds. The party says the campaign for the sale of alcohol during the COVID-19 lockdown is a conspiracy for mass murder and social instability. “It can only be the DA’s racist disregard of black communities that leads it to campaign on such a murderous agenda. It is public hospitals, which service mostly black people, that will be overwhelmed with alcohol-related trauma cases and not their private health facilities which service white people,” says the EFF. The EFF says the DA’s call is a confirmation that the real alcohol lobbyists are the huge alcohol corporations that benefit from the disruption of society. The DA is yet to respond to the EFF’s statement. In this video, DA leader John Steenhuisen breaks down the party’s lockdown plan:  Ramaphosa declines a request from the Gauteng Liquor Forum On Friday, President Cyril Ramaphosa brushed off a threat of court action from the Gauteng Liquor Forum for refusing to lift a ban on alcohol during the nationwide lockdown. The sale of alcohol and cigarettes has been prohibited in South Africa since the start of the lockdown on March 27, sparking wide debate over the merits of such a move. The forum, which says it represents thousands of small businesses, has threatened court action over the impact of the decision on its members. In response, the Presidency said it had to consider the health implications of the consumption of alcohol as well as the need for social distancing. Ramaphosa said there were proven links between intoxication and risky and abusive behaviour. In the statement, government reiterated its committed to financially supporting businesses under stress during this lockdown period. The United Democratic Movement (UDM) welcomed the government’s decision, saying the President was spot on. “The liquor should not be sold during this period until the issue of coronavirus has been addressed successfully,” UDM leader Bantu Holomisa said. In the video below, political leaders criticise calls for lift on alcohol ban: 