The African National Congress (ANC) has urged party members and cadres to contribute to the Solidarity Fund aimed at complementing government’s efforts to fight the COVID-19 pandemic. The Fund was established on 23 March and is aimed at tracking the spread of the coronavirus, care for the ill and support those whose lives have been disrupted. In the video below, President Cyril Ramaphosa announces that government has set up a Solidarity Fund to support lives disrupted by COVID-19.  So far, Ekhuruleni Mayor Mzwandile Masina and his executive as well as Director Generals of the Public Service; have committed to contributing a third of their salaries towards the fund for three months. ANC Spokesperson Pule Mabe has also called on CEOs of SOEs to contribute to the fund. “We further make a call to CEOs of our SOEs, including top executives, including captains of industry, including our MPs, MPLs and councilors; to join in this effort so that all of us are seen to be making a contribution towards saving lives.” Political parties contribute to Solidarity Fund The Democratic Alliance (DA) on Wednesday announced that it would be contributing R1.5 million to the Solidarity Fund. The party said the contribution is aimed at assisting small businesses in distress as a result of the COVID-19 outbreak. DA spokesperson, Solly Malatsi, said on Wednesday that the party recognises that it’s important for all role players in society to play their part in acting in the best interests of the country during this time. “The Democratic Alliance’s Federal Executive has resolved to make a financial contribution of R1.5 million to the Solidarity Fund to assist small businesses in distress as a result of the coronavirus pandemic. The financial contribution is drawn from the salaries of DA public representatives. In addition, we will be distributing sanitisers worth R200 000 to essential workers who are at the forefront of fighting this pandemic.”  The Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP) also heeded the call by President Cyril Ramaphosa and on Saturday pledged R500 000 to the Solidarity Fund. The contribution will be sourced from the party’s public representatives. The party’s president Velenkosini Hlabisa said on Saturday that the contribution is the party’s small and personal effort to help South Africans. “The threat of the COVID-19 pandemic has necessitated drastic measures in the form of the national lockdown to slow down the rate of transmissions and to flatten the curve. This contribution will be sourced from IFP Public Representatives through the Office of the IFP Treasurer-General. Our demonstrations of solidarity need not be monetary, but through our small and personal efforts we can all help each other as South Africans.”  The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) also announced in a statement last week Thursday that the party’s public representatives will be contributing a third of their salary to the Solidarity Fund. 