A micro transaction platform, Ukheshe, has developed a cashless transaction system for taxi drivers and commuters in a bid to stem the coronavirus spread. The commuter is able to transfer money to the driver using the APP on their cellphones or scan a QR code. The driver will then receive a notification. Recently, the World Health Organisation (WHO) has encouraged people to wash their hands after handling money, especially if handling or eating food. Co-founder of Ukheshe, Clayton Hayward, says, “Obviously with all the news around COVID-19, everyone has become aware of that. Any surface that you touch can potentially transmit the disease. So, coins and paper money and surfaces can carry the virus for 24 to 72 hours. We have already been active in the taxi industry educating the market around the benefits of cashless transactions, obviously, when the virus started happening.” Hayward says, “What is unique about Ukheshe is that we have a clear capability to bring on-board both merchants, being taxi drivers, and commuters. One of the big challenges in that sector is that generally taxi drivers don’t have bank accounts and some commuters don’t have bank accounts and credit cards. We created an eco-system where they can load cash into their wallets and they are able to transact between each other and therefore, remove the risk of dealing with anything that can transfer the virus.” In the audio below, Clayton Hayward tells us more about how the APP works: Cashless smart card In 2016, the South African National Taxi Council first introduced the cashless smart card payment system in minibus taxis aimed at collecting fares whilst in transit. The fitted scanner with a Global Positioning System (GPS) monitors speed and location. The system, which was first piloted in Pietermaritzburg in 2015, was meant to assist taxi owners to access finance and bring taxi drivers into the formal economy. Fighting COVID-19 Earlier this month, the Department of Transport‏ said regulations require that all taxis be sanitised and cleaned.  The Department of Transport also amended its rules regarding load capacity for taxis. A statement, issued by the department, states, “The regulations on COVID-19 lockdown prescribed a 50% loading capacity. Proposals for a 70% loading capacity for minibus taxis were duly considered as well as a proposal for a 100% loading capacity, with the compulsory mitigation measure of the prescribed N95 Respiratory Mask as a pre-condition for all passengers.” “Ministerial directions were issued to this effect. We have since received a number of inquiries and queries from members of the public on the mitigation measures. The concerns were primarily around the 100% loading capacity and the utilization of masks as a mitigation measure. The public was without comfort with these measures and urged that we reconsider. After our announcement of catering for 100%, there was a public outcry about the impact of such an arrangement to the health and safety of public transport users. We took these issues seriously and engaged with key stakeholders, resulting in a consensus of maximizing the loading capacity to 70%.” 