The Public Servants Association (PSA) says it is concerned for the health of its members at the Mametlhake Hospital in Mpumalanga. Two doctors tested positive for COVID-19 in that hospital. The MEC of Health in Mpumalanga Sesekani Manzini held an urgent meeting with hospital management on Wednesday. Some of the hospital management have not been reporting for duty after two of their colleagues tested positive for COVID-19 and placed themselves under quarantine.  Public Servants Association Spokesperson Noah Bodiba says there is lack of management in the hospital. “In our midst, there was no medical manager. There was no acting CEO. So, that goes by without a say, to say there is no leadership. So, hence we said the MEC must make what we call a meaningful intervention in ensuring that at least we have a stewardship type of leadership as consequence of that particular meeting then there’ll be a meaningful and permanent solution,” says Bodiba. Response team is available MEC Manzini says the response team is available to assist hospital staff with screening for those that may have had contact with the two doctors that positive for COVID-19. “We have agreed on a plan that we are going to implement in this facility, so that everything goes back to normal. Your issue of screening, your issue of testing of the employees is something that we’ve already started. So, we’ll make sure that we allay the fear, so that the people go back to work as they are working normally. And also the members of the community must not be afraid. All employees here in this hospital are going to be screened, tested so that everyone is able to come back to work,” says the MEC. In the video below, Mpumalanga residents call for better enforcement of COIVD-19 rules: <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span>&lt;/ifram COVID-19 testing Health Minister Dr Zweli Mkhize has said government has identified almost 1 000 strategic priority municipal wards for coronavirus screening and testing. The National Health laboratory has procured 60 mobile sampling and testing units to be sent to district municipalities and metros. The number of cases of the COVID -19 in South Africa has increased to 1 505. At least seven deaths have been confirmed.  In the video below, Mkhize addresses the media on Day 6 of the Lockdown: