South Africa, on a yearly basis on this day, since the dawn of democracy, celebrates Freedom Day. However,  the 26th anniversary has come at a time where the country is under a nationwide lockdown due to the coronavirus. But political parties across the country took to social media in celebrating this day which saw South Africa take a different direction in politics. Many had good wishes for the country under the trying times of COVID-19. As the nation celebrates Freedom Day, President Cyril Ramaphosa has called on citizens to think of those less fortunate than themselves. Addressing the nation from Johannesburg, Ramaphosa said that while some South Africans have a fully stocked fridge and some minor inconveniences due to restrictions on movement, many are battling daily for their very survival. The President said the coronavirus outbreak has highlighted the inequalities in South African society. “This Freedom Day, we find ourselves engaged in a struggle that has thrown into sharp focus the poverty and inequality that still defines our society. The coronavirus pandemic forces us to confront this reality. Though we are certainly all braving the same tide, we have not been impacted in the same way by this pandemic.” In the video below, President Cyril Ramaphosa addresses South Africans:  Calls to avoid requesting funding from IMF, World Bank Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF)  leader, Julius Malema, has called on government to first exhaust all internal avenues, to help save the country from the negative economic impact of the coronavirus, before requesting funding from the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank. This follows a call from the African National Congress, South African Communist Party and labour federation, Cosatu earlier this month, for the Finance Ministry to avoid approaching the IMF or World Bank to financially assist South Africa in its fight against the coronavirus. “The Reserve Bank cannot use further instruments other than the interest rates to allow more money into the economy. We are in a crisis and we should internally exhaust all avenues to save our country from the crisis before we rush to the IMF and World Bank. It is not true that the IMF and World Bank will not interfere with our independent sovereignty when we owe them money. The SA Reserve Bank must play a far bigger role in making money available to government,” says Malema. The EFF leader delivers his Freedom Day message in the video below:  Celebrate the fruits of democracy The leader of the United Democratic Movement Bantu Holomisa is urging South Africans to celebrate the fruits of democracy, despite the huge challenge facing the country at the moment. “It’s a different day because we are celebrating this freedom today being indoors due to the COVID-19 pandemic and we hope that sooner or later, this thing will be a thing of the past. We need to make sure that we develop our country and to see to it that the main objectives of our freedom are realized, especially among the majority citizens of this country.” DA says more needs to be done The Democratic Alliance’s interim leader John Steenhuizen says more still needs to be done for South Africa to be a free country. “As we celebrate this freedom under the spectre of coronavirus and lockdown, it’s important to pause and reflect on just how important our freedom is. In this time, where much of our freedom has been limited because of the coronavirus, it’s important to acknowledge that these are the freedoms we should never take for granted.”  Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP)  leader, Velenkosini Hlabisa agrees. “Let us use this day to enjoy our freedom from crime against humanity. Let us also use this day as a country to renew our fighting spirit against all remaining inequalities, gender-based violence and socio-economic injustices.” While many political parties may differ about what Freedom Day means to them, they have all urged South Africans to unite and defeat the deadly coronavirus.