Gauteng police say 41 suspects have been arrested for cases relating to the burglaries and burning of schools in the province since last month. Police spokesperson Mavela Masondo says most of these suspects appeared in court after being charged with arson and business burglary, among other crimes. Masondo says they expect to make more arrests. “17 suspects were arrested in Johannesburg, including Soweto, 9 in Tswhane, 7 in Sedibeng, 4 in Ekurhuleni and another 4 in the West Rand. Since the cases of attack on schools started to increase in the province last month, the Gauteng Provincial Commissioner, Lieutenant General Elias Mawela, appointed a team of experienced and senior police officers to investigate and identify the perpetrators.” Meanwhile, Minister of Basic Education Angie Motshekga says that she is horrified at the number of schools that have been vandalised and damaged since the nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of the coronavirus (COVID-19) began. On Sunday night, three schools were broken into and learning equipment stolen in KwaZulu-Natal. Motshekga said in a statement that she is working with Police Minister Bheki Cele to get to the bottom of these incidents. “It is quite disheartening that criminal elements in our communities could destroy the infrastructure of their own children with such apparent impunity. I am in constant touch with the Minister of Police and with the assistance of the State Intelligence Forces, we are following leads to the immediate arrest and prosecution of every single criminal responsible.”  She has urged community members to help the police identify the culprits. “These criminals must be reported to the police immediately. Let us work together to safeguard the future of our children by exposing these criminal elements.” Learners from the affected schools could possibly experience delays once schools reopen and the implementation of the curriculum get underway.  In the video below, the lack of security is blamed for the torching of schools during the lockdown: 