The Gauteng Department of Health has again appealed for donations that would help in the fight against the coronavirus (COVID-19). The department has thanked those who’ve already made donations. It has received personal protective equipment, transportation, communication devices, bedding facilities and food items. They’re from different companies ranging from car-manufacturers, telecommunications, as well as mining companies. Gauteng accounts for 813 of the 2028 coronavirus cases nationally. Three of the 25 deaths in the country are in the province. Gauteng Health Spokesperson Kwara Kekana says, “We still appeal to both cooperations and individuals who wish to donate and help in the fight against COVID-19 to reach out to the donations team of the department. To donate email covid19.donations@gauteng.gov.za. We also once again reiterate that we’re not taking any monetary contributions and those funds should be directed to the solidarity fund as indicated by President Cyril Ramaphosa.” Local transmissions On Saturday Gauteng Health MEC Bandile Masuku expressed concern over the increase in local transmissions of the coronavirus in the province. Masuku says the mass screening programme announced by the President is progressing well, but there is concern over the spread of the infection in densely populated areas. “We are seeing Johannesburg being an epicentre of the infections in Gauteng and we are working with the municipality to make sure that we are able to deal with the numbers. We have seen quite a decline in the numbers of imported infections. Now we are seeing more of local transmissions.”  Joburg to enforce compliance  The City of Johannesburg Executive Mayor, Jeff Makhubo has raised concerns that residents of the city are not adhering to the lockdown regulations. Makhubo says the majority of COVID-19 cases in Gauteng are in Johannesburg. He says this confirms that as the City they have to enforce compliance in an effort to avoid the spread of the virus. Makhubo together with the Johannesburg Metro Police were at a roadblock near Diepsloot conducting lockdown road locks. Makhubo says some people abuse their permits. “There are too many cars on the road, to many people on the road. We think one is just producing a permit to an essential service in Kriel, in Mpumalanga and he is here. This is an abuse of permits.” The graph below highlights the top stories of the second week of SA under lockdown:  