The African National Congress (ANC) says a united South Africa in the fight against coronavirus is the most fitting tribute to the memory of late struggle stalwart Chris Hani. Friday marked 27 years since Hani was assassinated in his driveway at his Boksburg home in Ekurhuleni, Gauteng. The incident occurred a year before South Africa’s first democratic elections. “The most fitting tribute we can pay to our struggle hero for national liberation is to forge social solidarity and unite in our actions to fight the coronavirus outbreak. In the name of comrade Chris let’s continue to stay at home and show maximum discipline by observing all lockdown regulations even during the extended period for the good of all.” In the video below, struggle veteran Tokyo Sexwale talks about unity in crisis:  Hani was the General Secretary of the South African Communist Party (SACP). His killer Janusz Walus remains behind bars as he was recently denied parole by Justice and Correctional Services Minister, Ronald Lamola. He was initially sentenced to death, but this was commuted to a life imprisonment after the death penalty was abolished in South Africa. In the video below, the SACP’s Blade Nzimande pays tribute to Hani on the anniversary of his assassination:  ANC National Spokesperson Pule Mabe said in a statement that the ANC remembers Hani as a patriot who dedicated most of his life in the service of his people. “His death has robbed the liberation movement of one of its best cadres who were genuinely committed to the total eradication of the oppressive and exploitative colonial apartheid regime. We remember the life of Chris Hani as a patriot who devoted most of his life in the service of his people; a humble yet fierce fighter against apartheid injustice and all its manifestations.”  The party says Hani’s contribution to the struggle was not about personal glory, fame or material gain. “Comrade Chris Hani’s name will go down in history as one of fortitude, bravery and fearlessness behind the banner of the ANC, South African Communist Party (SACP) and our glorious army, Umkhonto We Sizwe, and as having advanced a humane cause for the rest of the people of South Africa, Africa and the world.” The party says that it will honour Hani by working tirelessly to deepen unity and thwart anything that seeks to undermine democracy.