Limpopo Premier Stanley Mathabatha is concerned about the non-compliance with coronavirus lockdown rules in various towns in the province. This comes as the number of coronavirus cases in South Africa has increased from 1 380 to 1 462. Mathabatha and several MECs were monitoring whether residents and retailers are adhering to measures to curb the spread of the virus in Giyani and Malamulele. He says they will be on the ground to enforce compliance by residents and retailers for the duration of the lockdown. Mathabatha says, “I decided that today (Thursday), I must come here to come and try to help to resolve this problem, when we talk about social distance we meant it. We are saying this virus does not have legs, we are the ones who are carrying it around. If there’s no social distance you will get sick and then at the end of the day and become one of our casualties. We don’t want many casualties, we want to minimize them as far as we can and we think that we are going to get this situation right.” In the video below, South Africans share their challenges with social-distancing: Informal traders allowed to resume business Meanwhile, government has relaxed some lockdown regulations, such as the re-opening of spaza shops, including informal food traders. Also, close relatives of deceased persons are now also allowed to travel between provinces to attend funerals. Night vigils are still not permitted. No more than 50 people are allowed to attend a funeral. This number excludes the undertakers. Cooperative Governance Minister Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma made the announcement at a media briefing of the National Command Council in Pretoria. Dlamini-Zuma says the spaza shop traders must obtain a permit from their local councillor or municipality. “Spaza shops were supposed to be open but for some reason some were asked to close. So we just clarifying that all spaza shops should be opened. Now we have included informal food traders. They must just get a permit from their councillor or their municipality and they are free to trade.” In the video below, Minister Dlamini-Zuma announces amended regulations: