Western Cape Transport Minister Bonginkosi Madikizela says up to 4 000 people have been arrested on the province’s roads since the start of the lockdown aimed at curbing the spread of the coronavirus in South Africa. At least 2 003 infections have been confirmed countrywide and 24 deaths recorded. In the past 24-hours, more than 500 were arrested at several roadblocks in the Western for flouting the lockdown regulations. On Saturday morning, Madikizela visited a roadblock on the N1 at the Okavango interchange outside Cape Town. He says more than 1 000 of those recently arrested will spend the Easter weekend in jail.   He’s reiterated the call for people to stay at home, saying these regulations are meant to save lives.  Lockdown violations in the Free State Several motorists have been arrested in the Free State for violating lockdown regulations and driving unroadworthy vehicles. Free State roads are usually a hive of activity during Easter weekends, but the situation has changed this year with the lockdown in place. Free State Traffic Chief Nako Ramotsoto says they will continue to mount roadblocks on major roads.

“We have observed some of the issues, minor offenses that happened especially on the N8 where people were misusing the essential service documents instead of going to work and their resident, they were using them to visit. As law enforcers, we make sure that everybody who doesn’t obey the disaster management act is being locked up.” In the video below, lockdown road rules over Easter:  Mbalula condemns lockdown rules violations by motorists Meanwhile, Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula has expressed concern at the increasing non-compliance with transport regulations and directions aimed at reinforcing the nationwide lockdown announced by President Cyril Ramaphosa. According to the Minister, at the start of the second week of the lockdown – the number of cars stopped and checked at roadblocks across the country increased from 17 559 on Monday to 29 738 on Wednesday. The number of e-hailing providers that failed to adhere to passenger limits for a vehicle licensed to carry 4 passengers increased from 32 on Monday and peaked on Wednesday at 509. On Wednesday, the number of minibus-taxis that failed to adhere to the passenger limit increased from 18 on Monday to 509. Motorists also attempted to cross provincial boundaries despite a ban on inter-provincial travel. The number of motorists who tried to travel across provinces increased from 125 on Monday to 196 on Wednesday.  “This conduct demonstrates a worrying trend which must be roundly condemned by both government and civil society. “Those who undermine efforts to arrest the spread of this pandemic must face the full might of the law and equally face condemnation by society, as their behaviour places the lives of millions at risk,” said the Minister. Earlier in the week, Gauteng had the highest number of motorists attempting to cross provincial boundaries to other provinces at 108, but was overtaken by Mpumalanga which had 149 violations on Wednesday, 8 April. Despite this, Minister Mbalula encouraged the majority of citizens who continue to respect and comply with the lockdown regulations and directions to continue to do so and encourage others to follow suit. The Minister further commended the sterling commitment of traffic law enforcement officers across the country in ensuring that South Africans stay home and further provide critical support to other law enforcement authorities. “Law enforcement will be intensified and authorities will not hesitate to ensure that the full might of the law is brought to bear on those who continue to break it,” said the Minister. In the video below, Minister Mbalula visits Noord rank on COVID-19: 