Freedom Front Plus Leader and Member of Parliament’s Police Committee Pieter Groenewald says his party is concerned about the behaviour of some police officers during the lockdown period. The lockdown was put in place in March by President Cyril Ramaphosa to curb the spread of COVID-19. This comes after, some police officers were allegedly involved in the looting of liquor outlets in the Western Cape. Groenewald says the response of some police towards communities and invading their privacy is also unacceptable. “Certain action from the police are creating certain concerns with the Freedom Front Plus. We see on social media where they misuse their power, where they arrest people illegally. They just go into their private home without a warrant. It is even told that some members of the community are using the police to settle disputes. We also see some members of the police who got arrested for the illegal trade of alcohol. Now all these action of the police is unacceptable.” Parly asks IPID for detailed data analysis on alleged lockdown police brutality Parliament wants the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) to provide comprehensive data analysis and statistics in relation to various investigations it has conducted during the COVID-19 lockdown period. The Portfolio Committee says it wants the updated information following many allegations of murders and assault against the police during the lockdown. Police Committee Chairperson Tina Joemat-Peterson says the committee has always supported and maintained the call by President Cyril Ramaphosa that the enforcement of the state of national disaster regulations ought to be done within the confines of the Constitution. In the video below, Minister Bheki Cele appeals to law enforcers to be more compassionate with citizens:  Case of alleged brutality The IPID in March arrested an Ekurhuleni Metro Police officer in connection with the fatal shooting of a man at Vosloorus township, Gauteng. It is alleged a scuffle ensued after EMPD officer tried to arrest people who were drinking liquor at a local tavern, flouting the lockdown regulations. A 45-year-old civilian was also arrested with the EMPD officer. IPID Spokesperson Sontaga Seisa said in March their investigations were continuing. “It is alleged that the police tried to effect an arrest and the same people, together with some community members, started to attack them. Police then discharged the rubber bullets. It is further alleged that the deceased was followed up to his veranda home where he was fatally shot at. It is reported that there are other persons, including minors aged 5 years, 6 years and 11-year-old twins that were also injured and were taken to the nearby medical facilities for treatment.” SANDF to co-operate with police regarding Alex murder The South African National Defence Force (SANDF) says it will co-operate with a police investigation into the incident in Alexandra in which a family has laid murder charge. Gauteng police have launched an investigation into the death of a man on Friday. The family of the deceased says the 40-year-old man died following an assault at the hands of members of the National Defence Force. The family says they were having a drink with neighbours inside their yard when the incident occurred. SANDF said in a statement that its members are expected to act within the law to enforce the coronavirus lockdown. It says any action outside the law will not be condoned. The graph below provides details of how you can report brutality against security personnel: 