Western Cape Premier Alan Winde says he expects the number of people infected with COVID-19 in the province to increase dramatically in the coming days as the province intensifies its testing. He says they are currently testing at an average of 3 000 people per day. Winde also says the province is sitting with 1 618 infections and 33 deaths. He expects the number of infections to peak at 80 000. The Western Cape is now the epicentre of COVID-19 infections in South Africa followed by Gauteng with just over 1 500. In the video below, SABC News reports on COVID-19 cases in South Africa.  Winde was in Khayelitsha, where 158 cases have tested positive, to roll out more testing centres. 19 other centres will be rolled out in a matter of days through the province. Winde says it’s only through testing that more cases will be uncovered. “We are just pushing the testing. Two days ago, we did 3 000 tests in a day. We are really lifting those numbers. It’s one of those things. The more tests you do, the more positives you are going to find. And now suddenly, we are seeing as the case with the infections, it’s because we’re pushing our testing up. We heard that from day one, test, test, test and we’re pushing some more. We are really hoping for those new one hour tests, they should be arriving here in Khayelitsha soon.”  Spot fines for people contravening lockdown rules Police union, Popcru, has called for spot fines for people that contravene lockdown rules instead of sending them to police cells. Popcru says this is in order to protect their members who are at the forefront of the prevention. Spokesperson Richard Mamabolo says the numbers of infected officials and contaminated police stations keep rising throughout the country. Mamabolo adds that while protective clothing has been provided for officers, other measures to reduce potential COVID-19 infections at the already understaffed police stations are needed. “Our members are overwhelmed by the kind of numbers that they have to look after and with the virus, of course, more pressure, more specifically those who are arrested for not following the lockdown procedures. We think that by taking them to prison cells, it creates a bigger burden on the facilities that we have. So, we think that perhaps consideration could be made in ensuring that they pay a huge fine instead of being taken to cells.” There are 129 confirmed cases of COVID-19 at Correctional Services Centres in the country. The numbers include prison officials as well as inmates, with the 75% of the cases located in the Eastern Cape. Police say they are still tallying the number of officers infected.  In the video below, government intensifies testing at Correctional Service Centres as more prisoners and prison officials test positive for COVID-19: 