The Gauteng Health Department says 10 patients in the province who tested positive with COVID-19 infection are in the intensive care unit. The total number of confirmed  COVID-19 cases in Gauteng is 801 with 3 deaths and 157 recoveries. “86 people are currently hospitalised in both public and private hospitals, with 10 in the intensive care units in various facilities. Johannesburg has 446 confirmed cases, Tshwane 90 cases, West Rand 12, Sedibeng 6, Ekurhuleni 120 with 127 cases unallocated,” says Gauteng Health spokesperson, Kwara Kekana.  Meanwhile on Friday,  during his media briefing in KwaZulu-Natal, Health Minister, Dr Zweli Mkhize said South Africa has shown some progress in slowing the rate of spread of the coronavirus, but the battle against the disease is far from over. The minister also announced that the number of positive cases has increased to 2003 with 24 deaths. He says many of the 24 people who have died from the coronavirus also had other underlying conditions such as heart disease, cancers and pneumonia, 410 recoveries and some 73 028 tests were conducted.  Mkhize said the public and private hospitals will be working together in the fight against COVID-19. He warned South Africans not to become complacent about the pandemic, saying that the country is facing a delayed storm with the COVID-19. “To defeat COVID-19 is no longer an issue of a nurse and a doctor it is actually about society it is actually about going in a combat zone and fighting this infection I do want to say that at this point the indications we have as President has indicated are very promising but we did say before while we see some very promising elements in the response it is still too early and therefore if there’s any turn in the events in the outbreak we may not have other warnings so I think it is important for us to keep remembering that we are still traversing through a storm that is gathering and the storm is not over.” Minister Mkhize briefing the media on Friday:  Mkhize says it is up to every South African to join the fight against COVID-19. He says it is essential that South Africans obey the lockdown regulations, maintain good hygiene and maintain social distancing as much as possible. He also urges that South Africans wear three-layered cloth face masks when in public.   Loading… (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));  