Inkantha Freedom (IFP) party has joined a number of  South Africans donors including political parties to contribute  to the COVID-19 Solidarity Fund. The Fund  has been set up to combat the spread of the virus and  support those whose lives are disrupted. The party has pledged R500 000 to the Solidarity Fund over three months which will be sourced from its public representatives according to a story issued on Saturday. “The threat of the Covid-19 pandemic has necessitated drastic measures in the form of the National Lockdown to slow down the rate of transmissions and to flatten the curve. This contribution will be sourced from IFP Public Representatives through the Office of the IFP Treasurer-General. Our demonstrations of solidarity need not be monetary but through our small and personal efforts we can all help each other as South Africans,” says IFP president. The party further calls on South Africans to adhere to the rules and regulations of the lockdown.  Below is the full statement on the contribution.  While addressing the nation on Thursday evening on the extension of the lockdown, President Cyril Ramaphosa said his cabinet will take a salary cut of 33% for the next three months to support the fund. “In support of this effort, we have decided that the president, the deputy president ministers and deputy ministers will each take a one-third cut in their salaries for the next three months this portion of their salaries will be donated to the solidarity fund. We are calling on other public office bearers and executives of large companies to make similar gesture and further increase the reach of this national effort,” says Ramaphosa. Below is the President’s live address:  Soon after the President’s address, the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) also announced that all its public representatives will contribute a third of their salaries to the COVID-19 Solidarity Fund.   Below are some of economic response announced by government:    Loading… (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));