The South African Muslim COVID-19 Response Task Team has donated about R7 million to organisations that are helping communities affected by the coronavirus. This is after many communities appealed for food donations to cope during the lockdown restrictions. The restrictions come  after President Cyril Ramaphosa declared a national state of emergency and the country to be under lockdown to curb the spread of COVID-19. The lockdown began on March 26 and will end on April 16. The lockdown makes provision for essential workers to work, and grocery shops and pharmacies to open.  Loading… (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); Co-ordinator of the task team, Mickaeel Collier, says they’ve also donated hand sanitisers to communities in some areas. The Motsepe Foundation has pledged R1 billion in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic in South Africa. It has also donated R5 million to the University of Cape Town to help it manage its response to the global pandemic. The Motsepe Foundation joined other South African business bodies and lobby groups who have pledged to work with government in the fight against the pandemic. “We are purchasing sanitisers, disinfectants, PPEs and are in discussions with government, health workers and other stakeholders to assist with acquiring other equipment and making resources available which are essential with dealing with the coronavirus pandemic. We are providing water to poor, rural and urban communities, by purchasing water tanks, drilling and equipping for boreholes and building sanitary facilities,” said the Foundation’s Chief Executive Officer Dr Precious Moloi-Motsepe, while making the announcement in Pretoria. Billionaire Patrice Motsepe has urged South Africans not to feel helpless or panic amid the COVID-19 pandemic. He says he is confident that the country will deal with the pandemic. “In these challenging times, it is important that many of our people do not feel helpless or hopeless or panic. With the proper recognition among all of us, we are indeed confident that we will deal with this pandemic.” In the video below, the Motsepe Foundation pledges R1 billion to fight COVD-19 in South Africa:  The Jack Ma Foundation has sent a consignment of essential medical items to Africa, to be distributed from Ethiopia. The 54 African States will get 20 000 test kits each, as well as 100 000 masks and 1 000 medical use protective suits and face shields. The donation was delivered to Ethiopia, from where the Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed oversaw distribution to other member states. The foundation says it will start providing online training materials for COVID-19 clinical treatment to medical institutions in the continent.