Government has put out a request for public comment on the Risk Adjust-Strategy that aims to reopen different sectors of the economy when the country enters a level-4 lockdown from  May 1. Operations in key sectors, such as agriculture, food and construction will be phased in. The draft framework can be accessed on the website sacoronavirus.co.za. All comments must be submitted via email to lockdowncomments@cogta.gov.za by 12pm on the 27 of April. Among the new measures is a curfew to restrict the movement of people between 8pm and 5am. Essential workers are exempted from the curfew only if their work hours fall within the curfew period. The sale of lotto tickets and alcohol will remain prohibited. As we move from level 5 to #level4lockdown on 1 May, social distancing and hygiene remain important. #clothmask will be mandatory https://t.co/C4PxscTI1n — South African Government (@GovernmentZA) April 25, 2020  Earlier it was reported that workers in industries that will reopen from 1 May and who had travelled to other provinces before the coronavirus national lockdown began will be able to return to their provinces of work when Level-4 lockdown rules kick in on Friday. However, inter-provincial travel remains prohibited, except for exceptional circumstances. These include traveling for funerals or essential work. A permit is needed for both instances. This emerged during a media briefing in Pretoria on the stage four easing of lockdown regulations aimed at a phased reopening of economic activity during the COVID-19 pandemic. Cooperative Governance Minister Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma and Trade and Industry Minister Ebrahim Patel were addressing journalists. Patel says they estimate that about 1.5 million South Africans will be able to return to work under Level-4 restrictions. He says their approach to revive the economy is a measured one to ensure the continued curbing of the spread of COVID-19. Patel says government is engaging with all sectors of business to ensure they create a safe environment for workers to return to. In the video below, Ministers Dlamini-Zuma and Patel brief the media on the Risk-Adjusted Strategy:  “With the change in the lockdown from Level-5 to Level-4 as we move to that level, we estimate that it will enable more than 1.5 million South Africans to leave their homes and go back into the workplace; that’s roughly the additional number that we expect. The exact number will depend on many factors and how many firms reopen; on the final arrangements involving sectors like education and so and it will be based on a framework that we’re still developing for different sectors.” In the video below, Dlamini-Zuma urges South Africans to adhere to regulations: