Some nyaope addicts in Polokwane, Limpopo, are worried that they are putting themselves at risk of getting COVID-19 because their addiction makes it difficult to comply with the lockdown regulations. They say it is difficult to practice social distancing or to stay indoors, as they constantly need to make plans to get hold of and smoke the drug. The nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of the coronavirus pandemic has presented a lot of discomforts due to the restrictions placed on people’s daily lives. Some have been complaining about loss of income and others about not coping with being confined to their homes. In the video below, an Eldorado Park mother shares her anxiety and fears over her drug addicted daughter:  A 32-year-old man, who has been smoking nyaope for eight years, says they are afraid of getting infected with COVID-19, but practicing social distancing is not easy. “It’s not possible to do social distancing. We are always together, making plans to get our next fix. We even think this coronavirus lockdown is meant to punish us because we are addicts and they want us off the streets. But we have no other way to get money than to hustle. None of us is working. We are forced to stay and smoke in groups.” He adds that since they are no longer able to source money for drugs through odd jobs, some of them have resorted to committing crime to get their next fix. “Accessing nyaope is not a problem. The problem is getting money to buy. If only they had let us to continue doing the odd jobs, we wouldn’t have the urge to commit crime for money. This drug can make you do things you will regret because it’s difficult to cope with the pain associated with the cravings. Imagine being in that state for two weeks? I have no choice but to steal.” Former drug addict and founder of the #StayingClean campaign Tebogo Mathoko has appealed to government to also provide assistance to drug addicts during this period. “It’s quite difficult now. I mean the crime rate is bound to get up. Like in my area, you will always find them on corners seated somewhere and always planning ‘where can we get money?’ And they get arrested. They get beaten up by the soldiers. The only thing that they will do is to steal. That’s what I have observed. What can be done honestly is the government, if they can at least provide them with temporary shelter, (and) something for them to be doing.” Meanwhile, the 32-year-old man says he hopes he won’t be infected with coronavirus because he wants to live and beat his drug addiction.