Several people have been arrested for allegedly looting liquor stores in the Western Cape. A video went viral on Thursday showing people breaking into a store in Avonwood Mall in Elsies River. Police say the criminals are believed to have gained entry by forcefully opening a door and then stealing bottles of alcohol. Police spokesperson Novela Potelwa says liquor-store-looting was also reported in Retreat, Hermanus and Mbekweni in Paarl.  Potelwa says tracing operations were launched to search for the perpetrators. “As a consequence 6 youths were arrested in Mbekweni for burglary and theft. Seven suspects between the ages of 18 and 33 were arrested in Elsies River. Meanwhile, a 30-year-old woman was arrested in Retreat and two suspects in their late 20s were arrested in Hermanus. The police in the Western Cape are issuing a stern warning to those who carry out these acts that they will be dealt with decisively. The arrested suspects are expected to appear in various courts soon.”  Meanwhile, Police Minister Bheki Cele has called on the communities to respect the lockdown by not selling and buying alcohol. “There’s a big cry of alcohol here. Shut the shebeens down and be unkind to people that are breaking the law. ‘Vala joint’ people that move around drinking; tell them their lives will be better after 21 days, they’ll look good, they’ll look good after 21 days are finished, they’ll be yellow bones they’ll look good.” Cele also says that no shop will be allowed to sell cigarettes during the lockdown as they are non-essentials. He was responding to Western Cape government’s decision to life the ban on the sale of cigarettes, emphasising that they may only be sold together with essential goods. “This thing of people wanting to buy cigarettes ‘ayikho’, there’s no cigarettes sales here. I’m told that in one province, they wanted to do that. We spoke to the Premier to say should we find that your shops are selling cigarettes; we shut down your shop. Nothing essential about cigarettes; this disease attacks your lungs so don’t add extra pressure on your lungs by smoking.” In the video below, Minister of Police Bheki Cele says people must stop making requests for bottle stores to be opened 