The Democratic Alliance (DA) says it has not yet taken a stand on the call for the lifting of the ban on alcohol sales during the national lockdown. This follows a call by the Gauteng Liquor Board to government to change the regulations on the sale of alcohol. There is a court case coming up this week, which will seek to compel president Cyril Ramaphosa to allow the selling of alcohol in the country during the lockdown. The DA says it will discuss the latest developments. In a statement released on Sunday, the DA says a media briefing will take place on Monday, where party interim leader, John Steenhuisen will outline their view. Some sectors of society, including business owners, intend to approach the courts to try and force government to relax existing lockdown regulations, particularly in relation to liquor trading. There is a court case coming up this week, which will seek to compel President Cyril Ramaphosa to allow the selling of alcohol in the country during the lockdown. The forum says the lockdown regulations breach their member’s constitutional right to choose their trade, occupation or profession freely. It says since the announcement on the total ban on the sale of alcohol their clients’ businesses have been negatively affected. The ANC has urged companies to take advantage of measures to mitigate the effect of the lockdown – rather than undermine government efforts to combat the spread of the Coronavirus. President Cyril Ramaphosa has pleaded with the nation to make even greater sacrifices so that South Africa may survive this crisis and save the lives of people. ANC National Spokesperson, Pule Mabe says, “The current situation shows that this is indeed a moment of business unusual, across the board. The ANC calls on all South Africans to abide by the lockdown regulations as well as precautionary measures that were announced by government as part of curbing the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. We are alive to the fact that when we finish this extended lockdown period, our government would have registered greater progress as we have seen with the number of recoveries that are being reported on a daily basis.” On Sunday, the chairperson of the Portfolio Committee on Health Dr. Sibongiseni Dhlomo called on President Ramaphosa to ignore calls from the Liquor Forum to sell alcohol during the lockdown.  Meanwhile, the Congress of the People has rejected the call by the Gauteng Liquor Forum for the Government to lift the ban on the sale of alcohol. COPE spokesperson Dennis Bloem says in a statement that this seeks to undermine the regulations of the nationwide lockdown by President Ramaphosa to curb the spread of the virus. Bloem says it’s shocking that people are calling for the suspension of the ban on alcohol sales, but no one is making similar calls for the reopening of the schools and universities. He further calls upon the police to arrest and show no mercy to the syndicates which are involved in the illegal selling of alcohol. Police warning over alcohol Police Minister Bheki Cele has called on the communities to respect the lockdown by not selling and buying alcohol. He made the call in Polokwane ahead of a campaign to ensure compliance to the national regulations that are in place. “There’s a big cry of alcohol here. Shut the shebeens down and be unkind to people that are breaking the law. ‘Vala joint’ people that move around drinking; tell them their lives will be better after 21 days, they’ll look good, they’ll look good after 21 days are finished, they’ll be yellow bones they’ll look good.” Minister Cele says people should stop making requests for bottle stores to be opened:  Cele adds that no shop will be allowed to sell cigarettes during the lockdown as they are non-essentials. He was responding to Western Cape government’s decision to life the ban on the sale of cigarettes, emphasising that they may only be sold together with essential goods. “This thing of people wanting to buy cigarettes ‘ayikho’, there’s no cigarettes sales here. I’m told that in one province, they wanted to do that. We spoke to the Premier to say should we find that your shops are selling cigarettes; we shut down your shop. Nothing essential about cigarettes; this disease attacks your lungs so don’t add extra pressure on your lungs by smoking.”  Arrest in Stellenbosch Three men have been arrested in connection with a burglary and theft at a liquor store in Stellenbosch. Western Cape Police spokesperson Novela Potelwa says the suspects allegedly broke a window of the store this morning, took alcohol and fled in a vehicle. “A passer-by flagged down a local security company vehicle on patrol. She says traffic officers manning a roadblock nearby, saw the vehicle and stopped it. The stolen liquor was found in the vehicle.  The suspects will appear in the Stellenbosch Magistrate’s Court on Tuesday on charges of burglary and possession of stolen property. The three suspects are aged 43;  33 and 29 are expected to appear in court on Tuesday on charges of burglary and theft,” says Potelwa. The graph below highlights the top stories of the second week of lockdown: 