The Democratic Alliance in KwaZulu-Natal has laid a charge against Premier Sihle Zikalala for allegedly contravening the lockdown regulations. This follows an event at Durban’s Clairwood Hospital during which Zikalala and government officials gathered with essential workers, including police and healthcare workers, to accept a donation of medical equipment.  The gathering took place in the parking area of the hospital. The hospital is set to be the eThekwini’s quarantine facility. Additional wards are being built. The hospital is currently a 3 000 bed facility. In the video below, Clairwood Hospital is accused of mistreating COVID-19 patients:  DA’s Dianne Kohler Barnard says no gatherings are allowed to take place. “No gatherings may take place unless it’s a funeral and it most certainly was not a funeral and Premier Zikalala had no right to hold such an event, especially in light that the police are picking up civilians all over KwaZulu-Natal on the most ridiculous charges like going to buy a loaf of bread or going to pick up their mother at a hospital. These are ridiculous charges. We’re living in jail in our homes and he feels he has the right to hold a public gathering he may not.” Meanwhile, Zikalala says the proposed continuation of strict lockdown regulations for the eThekwini district will not mean a complete shutdown of business. Durban and surrounding areas remain the epicentre of the COVID-19 pandemic in the province. “We are not saying we’ll close business operations. Those categories which should open will open but they will be following stricter measures that we are going to put in place.” eThekwini Municipality’s Thanduxolo Sabelo says various measures are in place to fight the growing infection rate. “We are also dealing with the issue of fumigating public spaces, our taxi ranks, train stations and everywhere, where our public gather, especially when they go to a place of work.” The premier received 3 000 masks and gloves for medical staff donated by non-governmental organisation the Muslim World League.