Defence Minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula says an investigation has been launched into the death of an Alexandra man in Johannesburg, who was beaten to death allegedly by members of the National Defence Force (SANDF). The minister says the investigation is being conducted by the SAPS, military police and the military ombud. The 40-year-old man died last week Friday following the alleged assault. A few family members, who were also allegedly assaulted, say they were sitting in their yard when soldiers confronted them and accused them of violating the regulations of the national lockdown. In the video below, family demands answers after a 40-year-old Alexandra man is beaten to death allegedly by SANDF members.  Mapisa-Nqakula says the deployment of soldiers should not be seen as a harsh move by government, but a necessary measure to help curb the spread of the coronavirus (COVID-19). “We’re not taking these measures because we are a mean government, because we are being insensitive. We are taking these decisions because it has become necessary for us to do so. We hang our heads in shame. We will not at any point defend what has happened, but equally it is important for people to give us time to investigate the circumstances under which this man has died in Alex.” Family offered legal help Advocate Thembeka Ngcukaitobi on Monday said that he will be representing the family of the slain Alex man. The deceased’s partner, Nomsa Montsha, on Monday demanded answers from the state. “We need so many answers and no one tells us. When they came to us, the reason was that they were looking for the beers and they couldn’t find those beers. So we don’t know the reason for beating them because they could not find what they were looking for. I’m afraid of the soldiers. I thought they were people that must protect us. So now I don’t know. When I see them on the street, must I run or must I feel protected?” SANDF to co-operate The SANDF said on Sunday that it will co-operate with the investigations into the man’s death. The Force said in a statement that its members are supposed to act within the confinements of the law will enforcing the national lockdown regulations. 