Eastern Cape Premier Oscar Mabuyane has sent his condolences to the family of the retired nurse who died at a Port Elizabeth hospital, from coronavirus (COVID-19)-related infection. The 56 year old woman was admitted at Livingstone hospital’s intensive care unit last week, after testing positive for COVID 19.  The Nelson Mandela Bay is the epicentre of the virus, with about 30 cases of the 61 reported COVID-19 cases provincially. Mabuyane also appealed to people of the Eastern Cape to work with officials in the fight against the virus.. “We would like to take the opportunity to extend our heartfelt deepest condolences to the family and all relatives. We also want to urge everyone to be stronger as we forge ahead confronting this virus head on. We just want also to encourage the people of this province, those negative and positive to embrace each other and work together, this can be defeated.” Graphic below illustrates protective measures against COVID-19:  Loading… (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));  The Eastern Cape has recorded its first coronavirus (COVID-19) related death.  A retired nurse has died from COVID-19 at Livingstone Hospital in Port Elizabeth. The deceased had attended a funeral at KwaDwesi Location where she is believed to have contracted the virus. The Nelson Mandela Bay is the epicentre of the pandemic, with 30 reported cases of the 61 in the province. Eastern Cape Health MEC, Sindiswa Gomba says safety measures were not followed at the funeral. “The patient was admitted just over a week at Livingstone in Port Elizabeth and she unfortunately lost the battle. She got into our hospital in a coma and we were thinking she is going to survive but however condolences to the family.” South Africa is currently on a national lockdown, which will end at the end of April.  President Ramaphosa announced the lockdown’s extension on Thursday night. “If we end the lockdown too soon or too abruptly we risk a massive and uncontrollable resurgence of the disease we risk reversing the gains that we have made over the last few weeks and rendering meaningless the great sacrifices that we have all made fellow South Africans this evening I stand before you to ask you to endure a little longer,” he said. The number of infections in the country currently stands at 1 934 with 18 deaths recorded. In the video below, President Cyril Ramaphosa addresses the nation: 