Western Cape Transport MEC, Bonginkosi Madikizela, has distributed protective material to the taxi industry in Mitchells Plain. The handover included more than 4 000 bottles of hand sanitiser, almost 3 000 pairs of gloves and nearly 9 000 masks. Madikizela says this supplements a donation of 10 000 litres of hand sanitiser from Distell that were distributed to various taxi associations. “Masks and gloves can be very dangerous if they are not handled properly. Now if you are going to wear a mask and fiddle with it, there is no point in wearing it.” “The reason why you are wearing a mask is to protect yourself from people. Even when you are wearing gloves, you must sanitise your hands because gloves are the biggest transmitters of disease or viruses,” explains Madikiza. SA lockdown extended by two weeks On Thursday night, President Cyril Ramaphosa extended South Africa’s 21 days national lockdown by two more weeks. He announced this in a television address. The President says there’s compelling evidence that the lockdown is working. “If we end the lockdown too soon or too abruptly we risk a massive and uncontrollable resurgence of the disease, we risk reversing the gains that we have made over the last few weeks and rendering meaningless the great sacrifices that we have all made. Fellow South Africans this evening I stand before you to ask you to endure a little longer.” The rate of new infections has slowed down. “Since the lockdown came into effect, the rate at which new cases have been identified here in South Africa has slowed significantly. From 1 170 confirmed cases on the 27th of March, the number of confirmed cases today stands at 1 934.” ”In the two weeks before the lockdown, the average daily increase in new cases was around 42%. Since the start of the lockdown, the average daily increase has been around 4%.” In the video below, President Cyril Ramaphosa addresses the nation:  Ramaphosa says government will continue fighting the effect of the virus through intensified public health response, a comprehensive of economic support measures to support businesses and increased support to the poor.