The South African National Civic Organisation (Sanco) has opened a corruption case against some officials for allegedly distributing food parcels unfairly. The organisation alleges that it has proof that some officials delivered food parcels to their families, friends and political constituencies. Many families that desperately need food parcels have allegedly ended up not receiving food parcels. A couple from Mabopane in Tshwane , that has a recycling business and depends on social grants was expecting to receive food parcels. This was after the discontinuing of the business due to the lockdown. “We are getting nothing. Not even food. We rely on selling boxes, plastics to get something. But now there is nothing.” Community leaders further allege that only 12 food parcels were delivered to beneficiaries in Mabopane. SANCO in Tshwane says it is taking legal action against officials it suspects of distributing food parcels based on personal preferences. In this video, Sanco opens a corruption case over unfair food parcel share:  Sanco Chairperson in Tshwane Abram Mashishi says: “We have opened a case at Silverton police station. We have the refference number and the police are investigating the matter. We opened the case on the following basis, complaints have come through. We don’t want to compromise the investigation, but we know the suspects. One of the suspects is one of our own member. The other one is a government official, who is working at the Social Development Department.” Meanwhile, the City of Tshwane says it is not aware of any complaints. It is however, says it has intensified the process to feed the needy. Tshwane administrator, Mpho Nawa, says they will support any efforts to uprooting corruption in the provision of food parcels. “Well, firstly let’s clarify that the administration is not partisan. So we are not here to promote a particular party and we condemn any other person who uses the food at the expense of the partisan learnages. I think the important thing that we should clarify if SANCO has open up a case it does come to us, but if there is evidence I think we will support everybody who fights against corruption.” The Social Development Department also is yet to respond on the alleged delays to deliver food parcels and the uncertainty on who qualifies for them.