On Sunday the total number of confirmed COVID-19 cases stand at 1655, this is an increase of 70 from the previously reported cases. The Health Department confirmed yet another two deaths related to COVID-19. This takes the total number of COVID-19 related deaths in South Africa to 11.  The provincial breakdown: Gauteng 704, Western Cape 454 , KwaZulu-Natal 246 , Free State 87 , North West 11, Mpumalanga 18, Limpopo 19, Eastern Cape 31 , Northern Cape 8 and Unallocated 77. The total number of COVID-19 tests conducted to date is 56 873 and increase of 2 936 from those reported on Saturday. Meanwhile on Saturday a meeting of the Coordinating Committee of the African Union’s Continental Response to COVID-19 was held. The meeting was co-chaired by President Cyril Ramaphosa as the current Chairperson of the African Union. The meeting was attended by ten Health Ministers from African countries who received a briefing from the Director of the Africa Centres of Disease Control and Prevention (ACDC), Dr John Nkengasong. The Ministers of Health acknowledged that the rapid spread of the COVID-19 pandemic is an unprecedented public health disaster. They jointly shared the concern about the disastrous effect of the pandemic that it may have in the African continent, given the levels of poverty and explosive spread in densely populated areas of human settlement. All countries shared their experiences and agreed that they must strengthen coordination efforts in order to limit the number of deaths and reduce the uncontrollable spread of this pandemic. They further agreed that they will share the best practices and embark on a strategy to fundraise jointly in order to ensure self-sufficiency, promote manufacturing within the continent and pool procurement within members of the countries. This will contribute in balancing public healthcare. The AU Health Ministers, also supported the initiative to coordinate technical experts, researchers and clinicians under the umbrella of the ACDC. 