About 200 workers from a Port Elizabeth company that specialises in processing animal skins protested at the premises in Markman Township against an alleged violation of the lockdown regulations. The company is operating with a skeleton staff. The workers’ spokesperson, Siyabulela Gweni, says they were shocked to find out that some of their colleagues have been recalled to work during this period because the company does not deliver essential services. Gweni also accused the company of not complying with health requirements. “We have exports here. There are products from China, Botswana and all over the world that are being delivered here. How are we going to know that these people are not infected? That is our concern. It is their health including ours.” Meanwhile, the company’s managing director, Stan Bloomberg, says they are not in violation of the lockdown regulations. Bloomberg added that under the amended regulations they are allowed to operate. National Union of Leather and Allied Workers’ Union official, Mninimzi July, says the employer should have consulted them with regard to any change in the lockdown regulations. “This is not a normal time as we all know. We all know there is a lockdown everybody is supposed to be at home. If the company had permission or a special permission to work they should have consulted us first so that we liaise with the workers.” Amendments to the national lockdown rules The nationwide lockdown cannot be abruptly lifted. That was the overriding message when Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs Minister Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma and other ministers that briefed the public on Thursday on amendments to the State of National Disaster Regulations. Businesses involved in emergency repairs, stores selling hardware components, vehicle repairs and call centres of retailers and short term insurance providers will now be allowed to operate. Dlamini-Zuma says coal mines are expected to continue supplying coal to Eskom. She also says plumbing and electricity services will be allowed. “When we do stop the lockdown we cannot do it abruptly. There will be measures that remain beyond the lockdown. We have also agreed that the mines must start operating. They’ll start operating at 50% and then the minister through directions will ramp them up to full capacity. There must be screening and testing of the miners. If you have a burst pipe or something goes wrong with the electricity, you should be able to call a plumber or electrician, that also is now opened up.” In the video below, Minister Dlamini-Zuma expands on regulations that have been amended to ensure the economy is incrementally opened.  When will lockdown end? The country will remain on lockdown for at least another two weeks.   Loading… (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));