An audio clip has landed MEC Sindiswa Gomba in hot water. The pressure is mounting for Eastern Cape Health MEC,  Gomba, to step down after she was overheard remarking that she was fed up during the technical media briefing with Health Minister Dr Zweli Mkhize on Tuesday. The clip went viral on social media with some calling for Eastern Cape Premier Oscar Mabuyane to fire her. It is not the first time the province finds itself in trouble over its ability to fight the spread of the coronavirus. A week ago, during a visit to the province, Dr Mkhize found the Eastern Cape to be ill-equipped to deal with COVID-19. In her apology, Gomba says she was quoted out of context and her utterances were not related to the interview. “I muted video, unfortunately. I missed muting the mic and when I already moved if you follow the video it is only there when I said ‘Ndidikiwe ndiyatsha’ and I meant that I was suffocated in the way I was wearing. I took off my doek and the rest is history. That’s how it happened. It had no malice and I was not under pressure. There would have been no need for me to feel agitated or fed up in terms of whatever related to the interview.” In the video below, journalist Yanga Funani says MEC’s comments have been met with disdain: Gomba has been summoned by Premier Oscar Mabuyane to explain her remarks. The Premier’s Spokesperson, Mvusi Sicwetsha, says, “When he saw what happened, he approached the MEC. The MEC responded and he advised her to clarify the situation to the public and issue a public apology. Given the nature of the public outcry, the Premier wants to assure the public that government will never get tired of serving people.” Political analyst Professor Somadoda Fikeni says Gomba’s political career could be dented by these utterances. “No matter what the explanation that was given, it draws attention on the incumbent to check what qualifications are there, what is the political history of the person concerned that would make her qualify to be the Health MEC. All those things are going to dent her political standing.” Meanwhile, Makhanda-based government watchdog, the Public Service Accountability Monitor, says it is against calls for the removal of the MEC. “PSAM would not support calls for the removal of the MEC unless such action will result in a new leader that will support the needs of doctors, nurses and patients and is able to provide direction and support the national Department of Health to take decisive steps to ensure that the province is well prepared and capable to respond to demands that coronavirus will place,” says Head of PSAM Jay Kruse. Gomba has also received criticism from opposition parties, with the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) calling for Minister Mkhize to put the provincial department under administration.