As the COVID-19 in the United States continues to be worrying, United States President Donald Trump has lashed out at the New York Times, which quoted several medical experts as saying that the virus in the New York area was mainly brought by European travellers, not from Asia. The New York Times then released an article that revealed how Trump missed the opportunity to combat the virus. The publication said in its article released on April 8 that “new research indicates the coronavirus began to circulate in the New York area by mid-February, weeks before the first confirmed case, and it was brought to the region mainly by travellers from Europe, not Asia.” The article prompted Trump’s dissatisfaction and tweeted that the article was “fake news”.  “He could have seen what was coming” The New York Times on Saturday released an article titled “He Could Have Seen What Was Coming: Behind Trump’s Failure on the Virus”, which seemed to hit back at Trump’s accusations. The article pointed out that “an examination reveals the President was warned about the potential for a pandemic but that internal divisions, lack of planning and his faith in his own instincts led to a halting response.” Carter Mecher, a senior medical advisor at the Department of Veterans Affairs, had emailed medical experts working for the US government and universities on January 28, saying the scale of the novel coronavirus appeared to be unpredictable. In addition, the article revealed a lot of details and timeline to support the Trump administration’s halting response to novel coronavirus. The National Security Council recommended in January that US residents stay at home and block traffic in cities such as Chicago, but Trump did not follow that recommendation until March. Peter Navarro, Trump’s trade adviser, detailed the potential risk of the epidemic in a memo to Trump on January 29, warning “as many as half a million deaths and trillions of dollars in economic losses.” But Trump denied it. In the video below, top Democrat in the US House of Representatives expresses how she believes President Donald Trump’s initial downplaying of the coronavirus outbreak has been deadly:  Trump labelled pandemic risk as “unfounded” Alex Azar, General Counsel of the United States Department of Health and Human Services, has twice warned Trump about the risk of the pandemic, but Trump called it unfounded. “Azar publicly announced in February that the government was establishing a ‘surveillance’ system in five American cities to measure the spread of the virus and enable experts to project the next hot spots. It was delayed for weeks. The slow start of that plan, on top of the well-documented failures to develop the nation’s testing capacity, left administration officials with almost no insight into how rapidly the virus was spreading,” the article revealed. There’s an official said “we were flying the plane with no instruments.” By the third week of February, the US government’s top public health experts concluded that the Trump administration should be advised to warn the American public about the risk of COVID-19 infection, and to call for social distancing and home isolation. But the reality is that by the time Trump accepts the proposal, weeks had been wasted. Trump responded immediately to the article, as usual, using “fake news” to fire back at the New York Times. Trump also went out of his way to circle the social media account of Azar, denying that he had received advance warnings about the risk of a pandemic from Azar and Navarro.  US records world’s highest cases and deaths The number of COVID-19 cases in the United States topped 557 300 on Sunday evening, according to the Centre for Systems Science and Engineering at Johns Hopkins University. The coronavirus pandemic has claimed 22 079 lives in the country. The United States is the country with the most confirmed cases and the highest coronavirus-related deaths, with more than 100 000 cases confirmed in New York City alone.