President Cyril Ramaphosa says the COVID-19 pandemic could set back by many years government’s renewed efforts to address poverty, underdevelopment, unemployment and a weak economy. He was speaking from Johannesburg in a virtual address to the nation marking the 26th anniversary of the first democratic elections in 1994. Below is an inforgraphic on Freedom Day  In his address to the nation, President  Ramaphosa says it will take a great deal of effort and resources “for our society and our economy to recover.” “This pandemic could set these efforts back by many years. It will take a great deal of effort and resources for our society and our economy to recover. The challenges we faced before this health emergency remain. Even as we turn the tide on the coronavirus pandemic, we will still have to confront a contracting economy, unemployment, crime and corruption, a weakened state.” In the video below, the SABC News looks at South Africa’s freedom since the apartheid regime:  Ramaphosa says exposing other people to COVID-19 by not observing measures such as social distancing is a violation of human rights. The President quoted the words of former president Nelson Mandela that freedom means living in a way that respects and enhances the freedom of others. “Violating the coronavirus response provisions and exposing others to a potentially fateful illness is the worst form of disrespect for others. This pandemic has changed the face of humankind, not just in our country. It has reminded us of our own mortality, but also of how interconnected we all are.”   President Ramaphosa says the COVID-19 pandemic is an opportunity for each South African to realise the dreams of freedom of the country’s forebearers. He has urged citizens to continue with the collective action and unity of purpose aimed at helping those who need it the most during these trying times. “We owe it to the memories of those who came before us to live the values that they cherished … values of empathy, compassion and solidarity. As we are reminded this Freedom Day, we have known far worse and we have prevailed. Let us keep our arms locked together in a column of defence against this pandemic. Let us use this crisis to reaffirm our resolve to fundamentally change our society.” In the video below, President Cyril Ramaphosa addressed the nation on Freedom Day. 