The national lockdown has brought many unforeseen consequences both good and bad. Alongside the sharp decline in crime, there’s also a lull in gang activity. It’s understood that countrywide, local gangs have agreed to a temporary ceasefire. In Westbury, Johannesburg – an area notoriously known for gangsterism and drug peddling – there’s been a significant decrease in violent crime since the start of the lockdown. Since the announcement of national lockdown, communities commonly known for gangsterism, drugs, and violence have seen a significant decrease in crime statistics. Westbury is notorious for turf wars. Over the last few years, there has been a spate of gang-related shooting incidents in the area, resulting in a number of injuries and deaths.  Sonja Burgher is one of many mothers who’ve had to bury a child as a result of gang violence. A year ago her son, Rouall, was shot twice in the stomach. “He wasn’t an angel, he was naughty like any other young man. He didn’t deal. He was my breadwinner. There was a time when he sold drugs but he made sure there was food. Here in Westbury, if you open your eyes in the morning then you must be thankful that you were spared to see another day. The perpetrators don’t have mercy when you take your children to school. When you put your head down tonight you must be thankful, because you don’t know when is your time.” Gangs and drug abuse have destroyed many families in this small community. Residents say they are pleased with the decrease in crime and they now feel much safer in their community. “We were like prisoners in our own homes. COVID-19 has brought peace. We feel much safer than before we were in a lockdown. People didn’t realise. We had to be inside our houses by 5pm.” “It has really quietened down and we can really see the stats that we get from the local police station has decreased and various other crimes as well.” In other gang-ridden areas across the country, gang violence has also significantly decreased. Welcome Witbooi, a retired general of the 28 gang is now an intermediary between communities and gangs. “South Africa has nine provinces and within those nine provinces it was a national decision that all gang leaders and all gangs that are currently operating in various communities have to seize all forms of activities. The rivalry between gangs and the other part of selling drugs within the community that can also increase the frenzy and anxiety with regards to COVID-19,” says Witbooi. Gangs mediator Welcome Witbooi says gangster crimes have decreased:    