The World Health Organisation (WHO) says while some countries in Europe and North America are now starting to plan how to ease social restrictions, there’s been a spike in COVID-19 cases in Africa. A trend the organisation describes as worrying. WHO Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus made the remarks during a media briefing on Friday.  He says in the past week there has been a 51% increase in the number of reported cases Africa and a 60% rise in the number of reported deaths. “With the current challenge of obtaining testing kits, it’s likely that the real numbers are higher than reported. With WHO support, most countries in Africa now have the capacity to test for COVID-19, but there are still significant gaps in access to testing kits. We’re working with partners to fill those gaps and help countries find the virus,” Dr Ghebreyesus says.  In the video below, concern raised around masks and testing kits:  According to the WHO chief, the Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (Africa CDC) announced on Friday that more than 1-million tests for COVID-19 will be rolled out across the continent starting next week. A move he has welcomed, saying strengthening and supporting African institutions like the Africa CDC will help now and for the future. “In addition to tests, we’re also working hard to accelerate the development, production & equitable distribution of a #COVID19 vaccine,” Dr Ghebreyesus says.  “To further strengthen support for Africa, I spoke with President Ramaphosa of South Africa, Moussa Faki Mahamat, the Chairperson of the African Union Commission, UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, the Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund, Kristalina Georgieva, and the President of the World Bank, David Malpass,” says Ghebreyesus.  The World Health Organisation is urging governments to “rigorously enforce bans on the sale and trade of wildlife for food.” Ghebreyesus says WHO is working closely with the World Organisation for Animal Health and the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations, to develop guidance on the safe operation of markets. “Because an estimated 70% of all new viruses come from animals, we also work together closely to understand and prevent pathogens crossing from animals to humans,” he adds. Full statement on the link below: https://www.who.int/dg/speeches/detail/who-director-general-s-opening-remarks-at-the-media-briefing-on-covid-19—17-april-2020 