The Unemployment Insurance Fund (UIF) has paid out R3,3 billion in COVID-19 relief funding since the 27th of March. Government says it has received 103 000 applications from employers who represent 1, 7 million employees. Employment and Labour Minister Thulas Nxesi says 220 000 workers have still not claimed. Nxesi was addressing a virtual briefing on Tuesday regarding COVID-19 Socio-Economic Interventions. Below is the full media briefing by ministers on COVID-19 Socio-Economic Interventions.  Employers are encouraged to apply for funding through the temporary employer/employee relief scheme.  Meanwhile, judgment has been reserved in a trade union Solidarity and AfriForum’s legal challenge against Tourism Minister Mmamoloko Kubayi-Ngubane’s decision to provide support to distressed firms and establishments in the tourism sector based on broad-based BEE codes. The applicants are asking the court to review and set aside the department’s decision to use race as a determining factor on who will receive help from the Tourism Relief Fund. The Tourism Minister says delays in concluding the first phase of issuing relief funds to beneficiaries is a nightmare to her. Kubayi-Ngubane earlier said her department would provide support to distressed tourism firms and establishments based on broad-based BEE codes. Kubayi-Ngubane says the lack of diversity in the tourism sector is a problem. “From where we standing, we think it’s a case that is worth defending. As (I) said in the court papers, in my affidavit, as a minister, that we do believe that, in what we do the law has not been suspended. We do believe that many of those who are previously disadvantaged, as well, continue to suffer and one of the things that give me sleepless nights is to see the sector, after COVID, not having much diversity; not being inclusive. That becomes my nightmare as a minister.” President Cyril Ramaphosa last week announced a R500 billion relief package to assist SA deal with the coronavirus. Finance Minister Tito Mboweni has said a combination of fiscal and monetary policy packages brought that amount to around R800 billion.  