Three people have been arrested in connection with the looting of shops in Manenberg, on the Cape Flats. Various food items and an undisclosed amount of money was stolen during the looting. Police spokesperson, Brigadier Novela Potelwa, says the arrests were made during a tracing operation in the area conducted by the Anti-Gang Unit. She says some of the stolen items were also recovered during the operation. Potelwa says, “We deployed forces starting after the looting took place of members doing tracing operations and I can indicate to you that members of the Anti-Gang Unit that were executing the tracing operation arrested three suspects and they were able to retrieve some of the stolen items.”  Condemnation The supervisor of one of the grocery stores, which was looted, says he’s still traumatised after a gun was allegedly pointed at him. The man says a shot was fired, but the bullet missed him. The supervisor, who wishes to remain anonymous for safety reasons, says he knows the perpetrators, adding one of the perpetrators was a child he watched growing up. “What actually happened, it was children who grew up in front of me and the person who raised a firearm in front of me is a child that grew up in front of me and I was totally dumbstruck. And what happened because of that, I don’t know. Was it because they wanted to prove something? But what they going to prove at the end of the day.” Western Cape Minister of Community Safety, Albert Fritz, has condemned the looting of the shops. “Our government really condemns the looting in Manenberg where they’ve looted supermarkets, so we really condemn it and we want to ask parents to really take charge of their children, because we have seen mostly youngsters doing the whole looting and being involved in it. Unfortunately, a number of them were arrested and what they stole was money and chips and chocolates and not essential food. So that we really want to condemn.” Meanwhile, in a similar incident, trading has resumed at another supermarket which was also vandalised and looted in Athlone on the Cape Flats. Windows were damaged at Shoprite when people forced their way into the store and made off with various goods. Several arrests have also been made in connection with that incident.  