Police Minister Bheki Cele says there seems to be a crime syndicate in the Western Cape, targeting liquor stores and outlets. Cele was in the province to enforce lockdown regulations. There have been numerous incidents of looting and at least 14 people, including police officers, have been arrested for breaking into liquor stores in the area. There have been calls for government to lift the ban on alcohol with the Beer Association of South Africa saying it would help stem the incidents of looting. But there have also been calls for the ban to remain in place. Cele says there will be zero tolerance to the sale of alcohol during the remainder of the lockdown. “We are finding some of organisation with the owners of these bottle stores who they come together with the criminals to push their stock that’s what happened. We have arrested our own police that were working with the manager coming with the underhand sale in that particular area. We are dealing with it we need to be harsh as SAPS because some of this alcohol still finds its way on the underground and illegal shebeens.  Cele was in the province in his continued drive to enforce lockdown regulations across the country. He warned that anti-liquor measures will be tightened during this period. At least 16 bottle stores have been broken into since the start of the lockdown at the end of March. Some of the top retailers have incurred huge damages and costs as a result. Cele believes it’s more than just ordinary crime:  Cele reinstates cigarette sale ban in  Western Cape Minister of Police Bheki Cele says the Western Cape has reinstated a ban on the sale of cigarettes during the lockdown period. This after Western Cape Premier Alan Winde eased the ban on Thursday, saying cigarettes could be bought together with essential goods. Winde says he was in contact with President Cyril Ramaphosa on Sunday morning about concerns on the interpretation for the regulations related to essential goods following the national lockdown. The sale of cigarettes has been banned during the lockdown. Cele says Winde has failed to explain why he considered cigarettes essential goods. “I spoke at length with the Premier of Western Cape saying please give me your evidence to say cigarettes is an essential matter. Premier couldn’t do it except that he reported me to the president and next time to say I’m saying cigarettes should not be bought.” ”He equated cigarettes to the dry wood. Dry wood, if you don’t have electricity you make food out of it. So, food and the food chain remains essential including wood, but cigarettes cannot be. I’m told that that has been withdrawn by the Western Cape and they believe that they need to follow the national approach,” says Cele. In the video below, Minister Cele says people should stop making requests for bottle stores to be opened:  -Additional reporting by Manelisi Dubase