South Africans are worried about their lives after the 21 days national lockdown. Thursday is Day 7 of the lockdown that began on March 26 and will end on April 16. The lockdown makes provision for essential workers to work; and grocery shops and pharmacies to open. The rest of the citizens are to stay at home. SABC News spoke to some citizens who fear that the lockdown will have a detrimental effect on their finances. Some say they work in the hospitality business and will be laid off after the lockdown. Others say they are stressed and have mixed emotions as they do not know how they are going to survive the pandemic financially. In the video below, Alex residents talk about ongoing testing in the area: Alcohol and cigarette addicts suffering Many South Africans who are addicted to cigarettes and alcohol are being negatively affected by the national lockdown, both physically and mentally. This is according to the SA Drug Policy Initiative which is calling for a reversal of the decision to ban the sale of alcohol and tobacco during the 21-day period. The organisation says although the decision was taken in good faith, people who are highly addicted to nicotine and alcohol will develop a range of symptoms such as psychosis, seizures and even death. Initiative founder Keith Scott says the ban may also pave way for other illegal markets to thrive. Amended taxi regulations Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula has urged all taxi owners and operators to abide by the amended regulations and preserve the lives of their passengers. Mbalula has announced amended measures for public transport during the remainder of the coronavirus lockdown period. Public transport will be permitted to ferry essential services workers from 5am to 10am and from 4pm to 8pm. Minibuses and minibuses will get an hour’s grace to get to pick-up and drop-off points before the official operating hours. Addressing the media at the Noord Taxi Rank in Johannesburg on Wednesday, the Minister said that MECs in all provinces expressed reservations over the new amendments. In the video below, Minister Fikile Mbalula announces amended measures for lockdown: