The community of Thulwe village in Moretele, North West is complaining about poor delivery of services, such as water. The community say taps are running dry and they now have to walk long distances to fetch water. They say this defeats the purpose of the nationwide lockdown. Some say they buy water from the neighbouring villages. Moretele Local Municipality Spokesperson, Mothupi Malebye says due to water shortage in the area they resorted to providing this community with water tankers while awaiting completion of the R80 million Klipdrift water project. Malebye says, “Previously Moretele local municipality provided 14 water tankers to different areas of Moretele which is affected by shortage of water and where the is a challenge of water a community must liaise or communicate with the Councillors so that Councillors must inform us.” In the video below, Barseba village near Rustenburg faces water challenges: Water tankers distributed in Vhembe district Some residents in the Vhembe district in Limpopo have expressed appreciation at government’s efforts for distributing water tankers to water-scarce villages. The Department of Water and Sanitation has distributed thousands of water tankers country-wide as temporary measures to address water shortage problems. This in response to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. The Dzwerani-Maematshena community also stated that it is challenging to stay home and follow the regulations of the lockdown as they have to go out to fetch water. The residents say the water tankers distributed by the Water and Sanitation Department will help as a temporary relief. A Dzwerani-Maematshena resident says: “The solution in this village is to connect the reservoir that is in our neighbouring village. We want to comply with the call from the President and stay indoors but without water, it is impossible. Before you bring that temporary solution we have a permanent solution that is to connect the reservoir that is less than 10 kilometres.” In the video below, Sellwane Khakhau reports that the North West is expected to receive 600 water tanks: Ramaphosa visits Rand Water Meanwhile, last week, President Cyril Ramaphosa visited the Rand Water plant in Gauteng to inspects the water management system. The inspection was aimed at determining Rand Water’s capacity to aid the government in distributing water across the country. Human Settlements, Water and Sanitation Minister Lindiwe Sisulu said her department had procured 41 000 water tanks, which have been distributed across the country to ensure water supply during the lockdown. In the video, below, President Ramaphosa inspects country’s water management system: