The man who was allegedly killed by soldiers in Alexander in Gauteng has been buried at his home village of Mawa, outside Tzaneen, in Limpopo. Collins Khosa died and his wife was injured after being assaulted, allegedly by the soldiers who were enforcing lockdown regulations last week Friday. About 50 people attended the funeral service at the family’s residence and at the cemetery as per the COVID-19 regulations. Family spokespeson Lester Khosa says the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) assisted the family with funeral costs and funds for the lawyers who are assisting them. He says SANDF officials who visited the family to pass condolences during the week did not offer any help towards the funeral costs. “Government is not helping, we were assisted by the EFF for funeral costs and a mortuary in Alexander for storage, the soldiers came but just send messages of condolences and promised to come back. They lawyers will have to do something to make sure that justice is being served because my brother did not fight the soldiers they came to his home.” In the video below, Defence Minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula pleads with law security services to refrain from using excessive force:  Khosa’s wife Nomsa Montsha, who was also assaulted during the incident, still has bruises on her forehead.  She says she now wants justice to be served after a week of agony. “I feel better, I think wherever he is, he will rest in peace on behalf of the family. We thank those who gave us support, Everyone saw what happened so I don’t many words to tell the president even the President saw what happened.” The graph below provides details of how you can report brutality against security personnel: Collins Khosa’s friend Shadrack Khosa says it is surprising that when senior government officials are caught violating lockdown regulations, they are not treated the same way as Collins was treated. “The President put it clear, we are not going out there to kill the people or beat the people brutality is not needed right now. So let’s listen to the president, we are fighting coronavirus not people, there are government officials who are breaking the COVID-19 regulations but those people because they are government officials they are out there enjoying the life but my friend Collins was killed for one beer.” In the video below, President Ramaphosa disciplines the Communications Minister for violating lockdown rules:  