Park Town Boys’ High in Gauteng could not have asked for a worse start to the 2020 academic year. Learner Enoch Mpianza was participating in an orientation camp organised by the school when he tragically drowned. The boy’s body was recovered on Friday after a lengthy search involving the police and private citizens. : Gauteng MEC for Education Panyaza Lesufi held a media briefing shortly after the boy’s body was recovered. Lesufi suspended all sporting activities at the school.   Lesufi says people assisted with an aircraft and drones in the search for the missing learner Mpianzi, whose body was found in a river at Inyathi Lodge near Brits in North West. He says the family was devastated when the boy’s body was located and he was confirmed dead. “There was a light aircraft organised. I don’t know who organised it because it was not coming from the police. The owner of that aircraft started to search the fields with people that brought their own drones. We had to go brief the family and it was one of the most difficult exercises. Members of the family cried uncontrollably, devastated. We just have to provide all the relevant support and counselling.” Lesufi also said they are investigating the circumstances that led to Mpianzi’s death and would “do everything in their power to compile a proper report”. Gauteng Education spokesperson Steve Mabona says Parktown Boys’ High School has denied speculation that the death of Mpianzi may have been a result of an initiation gone wrong. Mabona says initiations are not allowed at schools due to the abuse associated with such activities. He says the school assured the department that activities at the camp were purely orientation based.  SABC reporter Mahlako Komane, who has been on the story since it broke,  spoke to Palesa Chubisi in studio about what unfolded and lead to the 13-year-old Grade 6 pupil’s tragic death.  Parents are demanding answers after the boy drowned while on a school camp. The incident has raised questions about the safety and management of extra-curricular events.  Mpianzi drowned when a makeshift raft overturned on the Crocodile River, but his disappearance wasn’t immediately noticed and his parents were only informed two days later.  