Limpopo Health MEC Phophi Ramathuba has commended authorities at the Mokopane Regional Hospital for improving the state of the maternity ward in line with what the department calls centres of maternity excellence. Ramathuba visited the hospital to celebrate with mothers who welcomed New Year’s Day babies. Three babies of the 80 babies born so far were delivered in Mokopane. Ramathuba says the maternity ward, which previously lacked resources and was falling apart, underwent a major facelift to match facilities in some of the private health care institutions. “You can’t be transferring every single thing to Polokwane or Mankweng hospital. For instance here in Waterberg, you have got Bela Bela hospital, you have got Ellisras, Witpoort, you have got George Masebe, Voortrekker and FH Ondendaal. All these hospitals must be able to have the confidence to refer to Mokopane and be treated. Managers are employed to make sure that they operationalise what we pronounce. The leadership in this particular hospital took that matter very seriously. They benchmark in private hospitals, they benchmark in other hospitals. What type of maternity would you be able to say this is a real one,” says Ramathuba. Martha Nkuna gave birth to the first baby at the Mokopane Regional Hospital. The girl has been named “Happiness.” Nkuna is looking forward to spending time with her child. “I’m very excited about my baby. I went into labour shortly after ushering in the new year. I think it was because of all the dancing. I thank God for safe delivery. I will look after my baby, ensuring that she is always clean and exclusively breastfed for six months. This will prevent her from falling sick,” says Nkuna. The number of New Year babies born at public health facilities in the Western has more than doubled since this morning. Earlier, the provincial health department said 22 babies were born, but now the figure has been revised to 58. The first baby was born to Zahraah Abrahams in Mowbray in Cape Town at exactly midnight. The newborn babies comprise 32 boys and 26 girls.