A lawyer for the Nyati Bush and River Break Lodge has revealed that the Parktown Boys’ High School did not provide the camp facility with a roll call list of learners on arrival at the premises. This after 13-year-old Parktown Boys’ High School learner Enock Mpianzi died last week while on a school orientation camp at the lodge in the North West. Mpianzi’s body was found by police divers in the Crocodile River on Friday. Nyati Bush and River Break Lodge’s lawyer Daniël Eloff says learners were not accounted for as the school failed to do a roll call. “They used the list of all the learners who registered to attend the camp as a roll call list to determine who was present and it was at that point when they realised the boys weren’t accounted for. The camp sent out all 17 of the facilitators to go and search for the missing boy. They didn’t know where he went missing so they went throughout the whole property to try and find him,” says Daniël. Mpianzi’s family has however expressed disappointment at what they say is the lodge’s failure to provide adequate information over his death. There are growing calls for transparency, with witnesses detailing their version of events that led to his death. A learner has reportedly told police that the staff ignored them when they informed them that Mpianzi was missing. Family Spokesperson and Enock’s uncle Sebastian Kodie Motha says: “They could not tell us the truth for about three days…if they were innocent, they could come forward and tell us the truth. We are down since this happened and we are very happy that people are coming forward. If the body was not found anywhere, we would have remained confused until now.” Meanwhile, the family of another pupil who died at the Nyati Bush and River Break Lodge 10 years ago wants the lodge to be shut down. Mellony Sias also drowned during a school camp at the North West resort, like Mpianzi. Sias was a grade 12 pupil at Adamantia High School in Kimberley at the time of her death. Watch the video below for more: 