Well-known actor, Mortimer Williams has described the terrifying drive-by shooting incident at Melville in Johannesburg that claimed two lives in the early hours of New Year’s Day. The 45-year-old was wounded in the drive-by shooting. Two women were killed and six people wounded – including Williams. The shooting happened after an altercation. Two of the wounded are in critical condition. “The evening was going fairly flawlessly, everything was lovely, everyone was in good spirits. Without us even knowing, apparently, there was a bit of a tiff between certain parties. I was walking to one of my friends… It just sounded like firecrackers going off but then when I hit the ground, I knew I had been shot.” On the same night, 11 other people were injured in a separate shooting in Mary Fitzgerald Square in Newtown, Johannesburg CBD.  A manhunt continues for the suspects. Police are urging anyone with information on both incidents to come forward. Police spokesperson, Mathapelo Peters says a manhunt for the suspects has been launched. “It is reported that a BMW SUV approached and suddenly, multiple shots were allegedly fired from the BMW at patrons who were sitting outside the restaurant. 8 people were shot, 2 of whom were declared dead on the scene. Both the deceased were women aged between 30 and 40. “Anyone who may have witnessed the incident or have information that could lead to the apprehension of the suspects is urged to report to the police by calling the crime stop number 08600 10111 or  by giving a tip-off on the MySAPS app.” Police have denied reports of a third death. ‘Crime out of hand’ Residents of Melville say crime in their area has gotten out of hand and they are terrified. Some residents describe how they are feeling following the shooting. “Obviously we are shocked at what goes on around here. Melville is a really vibey area and it’s full of these beautiful and fun restaurants. Why do people want to come with aggression and just grab guns and shoot others? This is what happens in Melville, certain places operate as restaurants and they do not have entertainment licenses but they have loud music and DJs up to 3 in the morning. I never imagined there would be killings and injuries down the road from where I live,” residents say.