An eyewitness has described his version of events that lead to the shooting of eight people in Melville, Johannesburg, in the early hours of Wednesday morning. Two people were killed and six others were wounded when unknown suspects opened fire on a popular restaurant on 7th Street. Two of the injured are in a critical condition in hospital. Gauteng police are calling for anyone with further information on the drive-by shooting to come forward. An eyewitness says a fight ensued before people were shot at randomly. “It was not the first time that there was shooting randomly with a car that is unknown, unregistered, unmarked. It was just a fight, three coloured guys and one black guy. They fought and dispersed, went to Liquid Blue and the other clubs. The fight happened here. These guys came back here and shot randomly. They shot anyone and anybody that didn’t know a thing,” describes the eyewitness.  ‘Negative impact on business’ A business owner in Melville, Johannesburg has expressed shock over the shooting incident. Walter Niemand owns a Bed and Breakfast with his wife, not far from where the shooting took place. He says he fears that the incident will have a negative impact on their business and it may also affect international tourism. “We are all affected and it’s not just us as business people but it’s also for Melville, Johannesburg and the country. At the moment, we have guests from Holland, obviously, it won’t make a good impression and they will tell their family and friends in Holland what they had experienced here,” explains Niemand. ‘Residents terrified’ Residents of Melville say crime in their area has gotten out of hand and they are terrified. Some residents describe how they are feeling following the shooting. “Obviously we are shocked at what goes on around here. Melville is a really vibey area and it’s full of these beautiful and fun restaurants. Why do people want to come with aggression and just grab guns and shoot others? This is what happens in Melville, certain places operate as restaurants and they do not have entertainment licenses but they have loud music and DJs up to 3 in the morning. I never imagined there would be killings and injuries down the road from where I live,” residents say. Watch related video below:  