The Gauteng Health Department has apologised to the Marais family in Eersterust, east of Pretoria, and also financially compensated them with an undisclosed amount of money. This after a video of  76-year-old Martha Marais, tied to a steel bench at Mamelodi Hospital, went viral on social media. The video sparked outrage – with calls for action against the perpetrators. Gauteng Health MEC Bandile Masuku, accompanied by Gauteng Human Rights manager Buang Jones, visited the family in Eersterust, east of Pretoria, on Sunday afternoon, to apologise publicly and announce a settlement that includes monetary compensation. Martha Marais’case is one of the ten that the Health department in Gauteng is dealing with. Marais was found by her family restrained under a bench, lying on the tiled floor. A video of the incident immediately went viral and was met with outrage and prompted an investigation. Gauteng Health MEC – Dr Bandile Masuku – says the incident has led the department to do some introspection and introduce a list of priorities. “We have issues of training. The issues of rehabilitation of staff involved and also just the general management of the hospital. So it’s an on-going process. It’s not going to have an end date because it’s a part of our five-year plan in terms of our priority to make sure that we improve our patient experience, and of course the issue of monetary. That’s why I had to indicate to you that it’s an issue that’s approved by the cabinet of Gauteng.” The South Africa Human Rights Commission in Gauteng also welcomed the settlement between the Health department and the Marais family. The commission represented the family against the department in this matter. Gauteng Human Rights’ provincial manager Buang Jones says, “I can confirm that there is monetary compensation that was paid by the department. The department did also take care of the future medical care of Mrs Marais at the Steve Biko hospital. The department has also agreed to conduct a sensitisation workshop in collaboration with the South African Human Rights Commission. We agreed that we need to adopt corrective measures instead of just punitive measures.” Family spokesperson, Virgina Keppler, says Marais is slowly putting the ordeal behind her. “Ouma Martha is doing much better. We can say that she is in high spirits. She’s receiving all medical treatment now from Steve Biko hospital and I think she is also glad that this whole situation is coming to an end. It wasn’t nice what she went through. She suffered a lot of trauma and she is dealing with it. She is talking less and less of the unfortunate incident and we as a family is supporting her all the way.” Watch related video:  