The national results for the matric class of 2019 will be announced on Tuesday, while individual results will be available at schools the following day. This after the Council for Quality Assurance in Education, UMALUSI, approved the 2019 Matric examination results for release. Speaking during a media briefing in Pretoria, this week, Umalusi CEO Mafu Rakometsi said they are satisfied that there were no systemic irregularities and no paper leaks. “When you look at the whole process, from when the time when the papers are printed to the time when they are packaged and distributed to different centres, it is a massive operation and we have to appreciate the efforts of everybody involved in the process.” Over 600 000 full-time learners and more than 100 000 part-time candidates sat for the examinations. The result for IEB candidates will be available from Monday at midnight. Pupils who wrote the National Senior Certificate will receive their results at midnight on Tuesday. All SABC African Languages radio stations, Lotus and SAFM, as well as SABC 1 & SABC News Channel will broadcast live the 2019 Matric Results announcement from 6 pm on 7 January. Concerns about mathematics and sciences Meanwhile, Education expert, Professor Mary Metcalfe, says more effort needs to be made to improve the results of learners in poorer provinces. Concerns remain about mathematics and the sciences. Metcalfe says the performance of matrics in poorer areas needs to be assessed and appropriate interventions made so that all South Africans can enjoy a brighter future based on quality education. There were 40 000 fewer matriculants in 2019 compared to the previous year and as the learning got underway it seemed like smooth sailing for the class of 2019. While hundreds of thousands filled the corridors of public education for those privileged few, private schooling was the preferred choice. Metcalfe has warned that matriculants at public schools are unlikely to perform well compared to their counterparts at private schools. She says socio-economic conditions play a role in determining a learner’s performance.   SABC says all Grade 12 learners are eligible to use the SABC’s 2019 matric results service from 05 December 2019 until 31 January 2020. “Learners are advised to register on one of SABC Education matric results mobile services to access their results and should use their 13 digits ID number and exam number to register on the platform of their choice to access their results. In 2018, more than +/-400 000 students received results via the SABC Education SMS and USSD services.” Learners are encouraged to register on the following mobile services to receive their 2019 matric results: MatricsMate App SMS USSD Learners are also encouraged to contact the matric results centre on 011 507 4630 should they have any queries relating to registration. The centre is opened Monday to Friday from 8am to 5pm, however, on the day of the release of the results; the call centre will operate from 6am to 5pm. 