The National Freedom Party (NFP) and its leader Zanele Ka Magwaza-Msibi are calling on all South Africans to use 2020 to work together in creating a better South Africa. Political parties and leaders are wishing citizens a prosperous and successful New Year. NFP Member of Parliament Achmed-Shaik Emam wishes all South Africans a successful 2020. “On behalf of the National Freedom Party and the Leader of the party Zanele Ka Magwaza-Msibi,  we want to take this opportunity first of all on congratulating those that had a successful 2019. We have won the Miss Universe, we won the  Rugby World Cup, we won the Netball World Cup and very importantly we want to wish all South Africans irrespective of their race, irrespective of their gender, irrespective of their ability and disability,- we want to wish you all a very successful 2020, a very prosperous 2020. And we call on all of you to work together in building a better South Africa.” Millions of South Africans have expressed hope for the country in the New Year. Celebrations were held in various parts of the country. ‘One South Africa for All’ Democratic Alliance leader John Steenhuisen has vowed to deepen his party’s vision of One South Africa for All. He was speaking during his New Year’s message. Steenhuisen has acknowledged that the DA had a rocky year following the resignation of some senior party members including its former leader Mmusi Maimane and former Johannesburg Mayor Herman Mashaba among others. But he says they will continue to ensure that the DA is a party for all South Africans. EFF to intensify fight against GBV The EFF says it will intensify its fight against gender-based violence. In the party’s New Year’s message EFF leader Julius Malema thanked voters for the support his party received in the 2019 elections, making it the third biggest party in the country. Malema called on men to lead the fight against women and child abuse. He reiterated his call against privatisation. Job opportunities for youth As South Africans celebrate the start of a new decade, the youth have expressed hope for job opportunities and internships in 2020. They say despite 2019 being a tough year, they are optimistic that the future will bring about prosperity. “The government should stop making a statement that for a student to get a job out of university they should already have the experience, they should be volunteers and internships that should be given to students in varsities and college so they have that experience that they demand,” expresses one of them. Another young person says, “2019 was very hard but I think we have managed to pull through. I hope the current president and his administration will make sure that everyone gets jobs.” “I am so excited to have made it to 2020. Not everyone made it to 2020. A big job is coming for me.” 