Eskom is the biggest crisis facing South Africa and if it’s not properly diagnosed government may be addressing the symptoms. This is according to former President Kgalema Motlanthe. Addressing hundreds of people during the memorial service of Professor Ben Turok in Cape Town, on Saturday, Motlanthe used the occasion to warn against the problems at Eskom. Montlante highlighted that the crisis at the power utility threatens the entire country. Whilst diagnosing the state of Eskom, the former head of State said Eskom’s poorly maintained power plants are struggling to meet demands. “Eskom is South Africa’s top risk. The crisis at Eskom threatens the entire country. The State-owned utility can’t manage to cover its costs and make the huge interest payments on its mountain of debt. He added, “Eskom can be described as the biggest risk to the countries economy. State-owned companies are not facing one single challenge, but a multiplicity of problems. That if not properly diagnosed any turnaround strategy would only address symptoms that are on the surface.” Motlanthe tried to sidestep a question about calls to sack Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan for misleading government over the situation at Eskom. “If you personalise it, the minister is several notches away from the operations. And so if we think that’s where the problem really lies – we may be completely missing the point.” Tribute to Turok Paying tribute to the late African National Congress (ANC) veteran Ben Turok at the Community House in Salt River, Cape Town, Motlanthe lauded the former parliamentarian for his role in the struggle against apartheid and for his uncompromising stance against injustice, corruption, and unethical leadership. Motlanthe says the life and death of Turok is a reminder of how one should live for your beliefs. Motlanthe called on others to be like Turok and remain on the right side of history. “Today’s memorial meeting and the moving tributes are attributes of a man who proved to be nothing less thana great role model, a consistent moral leader of our time, this memorial service offers us a chance to become like Turok and be on the right side of history.” Hundreds of people, including Turok’s comrades and friends, descended to celebrate the life of the late anti-apartheid activist and former parliamentarian who passed away in December, aged 92. Turok’s sons described him as a loving father who loved his family, South Africa and his music. WATCH VIDEO BELOW:  