The African National Congress (ANC) in the North West has ordered the provincial government to speed up delivery of services. This is one of the key resolutions from the two-day ANC Provincial Lekgotla held in Rustenburg at the weekend. The provincial government is currently under administration, while in the past two years fifteen municipalities were placed under administration, due to lack of service delivery. The provincial ANC says public servants have to turn the tide in these institutions. The Interim Provincial Committee (IPC) of the ANC gathered under one roof this weekend, with all its deployees across all government spheres. While giving directives, the IPC emphasised that the provincial government must improve on the delivery of services, such as water, roads and sanitation, amongst others. “We are fresh from the 2019 elections. The Lekgotla resolved that when it comes to the 2021 Local Government Elections, we cannot afford to go back to our communities, to ask them what they want. We already know what our people want. Ours is to implement where we can, when we have enough budget,” says Convener of the ANC IPC in North West, Suzan Dantjie.  Dantjie says the party is awaiting a report on progress made by the Inter-Ministerial Committee, in strengthening service delivery in the province. “We are saying it is high time now, we need to receive a progress report from the team that Mme Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma (put together), on the progress made thus far, especially towards service delivery. Upon receiving that document, or that report as the structure, we will engage on the report and pave a way forward.” Divisions among party deployees in the province were also condemned. They are believed to be responsible for weakening service delivery in municipalities and government departments. “We preached more on the issue of our unity and cohesion as the province. It’s very important because united we can do more and change the lives of our people,” says Dantjie. The ANC IPC says it will also monitor both the provincial government and local authorities, to ensure its resolutions are timeously implemented.