Millions of South Africans have expressed hope for the country in the New Year. Political parties and leaders are wishing citizens a prosperous and successful new year. ‘One South Africa for All’ Democratic Alliance (DA) leader John Steenhuisen has vowed to deepen his party’s vision of One South Africa for All. He was speaking during his New Year’s message.  Steenhuisen has acknowledged that the DA had a rocky year following the resignation of some senior party members including its former leader Mmusi Maimane and former Johannesburg Mayor Herman Mashaba among others. But he says they will continue to ensure that the DA is a party for all South Africans. EFF to intensify fight against GBV Meanwhile, the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) says it will intensify its fight against gender-based violence. In the party’s New Year’s message EFF leader Julius Malema thanked voters for the support his party received in the 2019 elections making it the third biggest party in the country.  Malema called on men to lead the fight against women and child abuse. He also reiterated his call against privatisation. ‘Working together’ United Democratic Movement (UDM) leader General Bantu Holomisa has urged South Africans to work together to identify and find solutions to all the challenges facing the country. In his New Year’s speech, Holomisa addressed the danger of South Africa becoming a one-party state saying the ANC is growing too big and arrogant and corrupt. He says with the current levels of poverty and inequality and with unemployment at its all-time high, it clearly shows that no single party can solve South Africa’s problems. ‘Year of action’ In its New Year’s message, the ANC has declared 2020 the year of action. The governing party will host its annual celebrations for its 108th anniversary in Kimberly next week. President Cyril Ramapahosa will present the NEC statement outlining priorities for the year ahead and reflect on progress in addressing societal challenges. Party spokesperson Pule Mabe says their January Eighth Statement will outline actions to deal with gender-based violence. ‘Work together for a better South Africa’ The National Freedom Party and its leader Zanele Ka Magwaza-Msibi are calling on all South Africans to use 2020 to work together in creating a better South Africa. NFP Member of Parliament Achmed-Shaik Emam says, “On behalf of the National Freedom Party and the Leader of the party Zanele Ka Magwaza-Msibi, we want to take this opportunity first of all on congratulating those that had a successful 2019. We have won the Miss Universe, we won the Rugby world cup we won the netball world cup and very importantly we want to wish all South Africans irrespective of their race, irrespective of their gender, irrespective of their ability and disability,- we want to wish you all a very successful 2020, a very prosperous 2020. And we call on all of you to work together in building a better South Africa.” 