Several organisations, including the Ahmed Kathrada Foundation, Organisation Undoing Tax Abuse (Outa) and Business Leadership South Africa have endorsed a statement released by a group of African National Congress (ANC) stalwarts and veterans expressing shock at the attacks levelled against Public Enterprises Minister, Pravin Gordhan. An ANC national executive committee (NEC) meeting and lekgotla are taking place this weekend in Pretoria. The organisations say the crises at Eskom cannot be attributed to Minister Gordhan. The Public Enterprises Minister has been under attack from within the governing party and outside.  The Congress of South African Trade Unions (Cosatu) has called on President Cyril Ramaphosa to fire Gordhan following Deputy President David Mabuza’s claims that the power utility board misled the President about load shedding. The organisations have urge business, civil society and all South Africans to continue resisting what they say it’s a clear renewed wave of attack by networks leading the state capture ‘fightback’. “We further call on President Ramaphosa and Parliament to not give in to threats by the EFF to disrupt the State of the Nation address should Minister Gordhan remain in office.” They claim these attacks are being driven by proponents of the state capture ‘fightback’.  Report on SOEs Meanwhile, Gordhan is expected to present a report on SOEs at this weekend ANC NEC with Eskom and SAA likely to be the main topics of discussion. ANC spokesperson Pule Mabe says the ANC NEC will not discuss the removal of Gordhan. He confirms that SOEs are indeed being discussed and they’ll be getting a report from Minister Gordhan on the progress made. “The National Executive Committee has never sat and discussed individual deployees, we don’t do that. It is the prerogative of the President to deploy members of the executive. We have got full confidence in all our comrades we deploy, that serve in the NEC. We still believe in their ability to implement our resolutions as of the Elective Conference. All that is happening here including a report from comrade Pravin on the work they do to turn the situation around.”  