New Year’s Day Melville victim will be laid to rest next weekend in Cape Town. Liana Peterson was one of the two women who were fatally shot during a drive-by shooting in the early hours of 2020. One victim remains in a critical condition and another in the hospital. A prayer service was held in memory of all the victims at the restaurant. Peterson’s family has thanked South Africans for their support.  They were attending an interfaith service at the restaurant on Sunday evening. The 41-year-old had moved from Cape Town to Johannesburg a year ago. She had been out that night celebrating with her 12-year-old daughter when the shooting occurred. Her cousin, Larny Geldenhuys says the outpouring of support has been overwhelming. “There’s been an outpouring of love and support and we really just want to thank the South African people as well as the international community. The pain that we are experiencing as a family, as a community is screaming. But what is it screaming? “We are united. Thank you for your love, your prayers, your support. Thank you for all of your messages. Let’s just continue to pray for everyone that has been affected by this atrocity.”  27-year-old Samantha Badshew also lost her life that day. She was with her husband when the incident took place. Lerato Khambule was one of those injured. He was shot in the head and is currently in ICU. Friends, patrons, and mourners came out to honor the victims. Many found a home within the walls of Poppy’s. Today they refuse to allow this callous act to scare them off. Hands off Poppy’s The restaurant was packed to capacity, friends, colleagues and family collectively gathered to mourn the lives of the two victims. Mourners vowed to continue visiting the popular establishment, saying they will not be deterred by the violence. The families of those who died and were injured in the incident sit among the crowd, some failing to hold back their tears. The sentiment shared by all is Hands off Poppy’s.  Police have yet to announce any arrests. Watch video below: 