President Donald Trump said on Friday that the US Constitution was being attacked in the state of Virginia, where lawmakers have been moving to enact tougher gun laws and arms enthusiasts are planning a rally next week. “Your 2nd Amendment is under very serious attack in the Great Commonwealth of Virginia,” Trump wrote in a post on Twitter, referring to the amendment in the Bill of Rights that gives Americans the right to keep and bear firearms. The Virginia Senate late on Thursday passed bills to require background checks on all firearms sales, limit handgun purchases to one a month, and restore local governments’ right to ban weapons from public buildings and other venues. Gun-control activists have reported a growing number of online death threats as the lawmakers press on and ahead of a rally by arms enthusiasts on Monday in the state capitol of Richmond that authorities are trying to keep from becoming violent. Democrats promising stronger gun laws took control of the legislature in Virginia in 2019, putting the state at the center of the contentious American debate around the right to bear arms. Both Virginia houses are expected to pass the new laws. Supporters say more restrictive laws would help decrease the number of people killed by guns each year. Gun-rights activists assert the constitution guarantees their right to possess any firearm. Militias, neo-Nazis and other groups have vowed to swarm the capitol. Supporters of the new laws said on Friday that despite a spike in online threats, they will not back down, however. “These extremists are afraid their guns will be taken away -we’re afraid our children will be taken away,” said Shannon Watts, founder of the Moms Demand Action group that advocates tougher laws. “While the rally has grown in size and grown more extreme, what we will see Monday is a vocal minority.” Watts said that she and many members of her group and their families had been increasingly threatened online with death and rape, and Virginia members of her organization have had their home addresses and other personal information shared online,which they have reported to police.