Mpumalanga MEC of Sports and Recreation and Acting Provincial Secretary in the province Lindiwe Ntshalintshali has been recorded discussing government ‘contracts’ in an alleged scandal. The Acting Provincial Secretary of African National Congress (ANC) is heard in the audio recording discussing government contracts with an unknown individual. Ntshalintshali fired back saying the recording was taken without her consent and has questioned its authenticity. In the recording a female voice is heard saying “Wena you focus, you keep quiet, there are only two people who know that there is this process going on and nobody else – so he will speak to you and we will liaise because he said please bring somebody that you trust with your life because whatever that you make with them dividends, you know that your things are arranged and how you will get them…” “So I didn’t want to get any person because other people because comrades will knock you.” The female voice allegedly MEC Ntshalintshali’s is heard speaking about the about firing her staff, accusing the Chief of Staff of incompetence. “So what am going to do is, I am going to write their resignation letters and by this time say thank you very much. I will explain that I have spoken to you. I have warned you and I have not been assisted and say to them how do feel in a meeting that you have done nothing when I speak in a meeting, you have not prepared any notes.” Meanwhile, ANC NEC member Dakota Legoete says the recording must be investigated. Legoete says, “The recording is worrying and we must investigate this as the ANC because you can’t make a judgment until a proper investigation is done. Ntshalintshali has blamed the party’s warring factions in the province of using tactics to discredit her as she squares for leadership against Premier Refilwe Tsipane. The ANC in Mpumalanga is gearing up to go to its elective conference to replace the vacancy left by now deputy president David Mabuza. WATCH
<span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span>