The Lebone College of Royal Bafokeng in the North West, has maintained a 100% pass rate, for 12 consecutive years. The school which wrote its examination under the Independent Examination Board (IEB), also managed to obtain 93% Bachelor Degree  passes. The school’s principal, Michael Eisen, says the school has two learners who are amongst the top performers nationally. “Lebone has maintained its 100% record, in 12 years running. I am extremely proud of our students. I am proud of our staff and the role played by parents. We have two students at the top national percent, we are extremely proud of them.” The principal at St Dominics Priory school in Port Elizabeth, father Grant James, says their learners have a bright future because the school prepares them holistically and not just academically. The school again achieved a 100% pass rate. James is confident that last year’s matrics will excel in life. “Looking at previous years frequently the past pupils come and visit in the holidays and invariably they do very well at university. So I think this group will be the same, they also will be the high achievers at university. Most of our pupils finish their degrees in the allocated time, others enter into the workplace and employers phone me and say I’d just like to say I’ve employed past people from St Dominic’s and we very happy with them.”  Management at Reddam House Private Schools says it is proud of the achievements of the matric learners of 2019. The learners achieved a 100% pass rate, and a 100% Bachelor Degree pass. Managing Director for the Western Cape Reddam House Schools, Sheena Crawford-Kempster, attributes the success to a collaborative effort between teachers and learners. Three hundred and thirty four learners from the school wrote the exams. Crawford-Kempster explains: “I think for us it’s about the individual , it’s about the student, it’s about making sure that each child … we can’t pay lip service to it. If you can take it on as a genuine effort, a genuine process in life, children will respond to that they like to know that they are being valued. For us that’s key to the process of achieving the results at the end of the day.”  A school at Legae La Batho Township near Polokwane in Limpopo has produced a pass rate of 90% in the 2019 IEB matric results. Learners and parents at Maseala Progressive High School celebrated the achievement this morning during the handover of certificates. “I did very well and I am so proud of myself. At the end the hard work finally paid off. I mean knocking off at nine o’ clock is not a child’s play. First of all I would like to thank the school management, the parents and the teachers, for giving us the opportunity to prove ourselves that we can make it through 2019.” “I am feeling excited I mean having finished matric. It is a big thing. This moment is so precious to me because of the results I received last night.” WATCH RELATED VIDEO BELOW: 