Johannesburg authorities have been cracking down on people and businesses that are not complying with lockdown regulations. An owner of a popular Alexandra hangout, north of Johannesburg, was arrested for allegedly operating and selling liquor after the regulated curfew. The police were returning to the joint for a second time last evening. Earlier, they had fined the owner’s brother, who is the manager of the hangout, also for violating lockdown rules. In Orlando East, Soweto, a member of the community alerted the police to a gathering of over 300 people just before 11PM. The owner was issued with a warning and the facility was closed. “Lieutenant General (Elias) Mawela has assured the public that police, together with other law enforcement agencies in Gauteng, will be out in full force not only to continue with the safer festive season operations in anticipation of the New Year’s Eve cross-over festivities, but to also enforce the lockdown regulations and ensure adherence to the COVID-19 health protocols, in support of government’s response and attempts at minimising the risk of what has come to be defined as super-spreader events,” says Mathapelo Peters, Police Spokesperson. The provincial police commissioner has also urged the public to work with police in fighting crime. He has also reminded them of the role they can play in support of government’s efforts to ensure the safety of everyone against the second wave of the coronavirus. Last night, President Cyril Ramaphosa announced government’s revised COVID-19 regulations, moving the country to Level 3 of the lockdown amid poor compliance to regulations. sabcnews.com | SABC News channel | SABC Radio news SA COVID-19 AMENDED LEVEL 3 LOCKDOWN REGULATIONS MASKS Source: South African government The wearing of a face mask is mandatory for every  person when in a public place. Public places include the workplace, public transport and retail stores.    Any person who fails to comply with a verbal instruction by an enforcement officer to wear a face mask  commits an offence and is, on conviction,  liable to a fine or a period of imprisonment not exceeding six months or to both. EXTENDED CURFEW Every person is confined to his or her place of residencefrom 21H00 until 06H00 daily, unless a person: Has been granted permission through directions by the relevant Cabinet member or a permit to perform a service. Is attending to a security or medical emergency GATHERINGS 1.5 metres Every business premises must determine the maximum number of staff and customers permitted at any one time while maintaining a distance of 1.5 metres between people.H   Health protocols must be observed at gatherings, including maintaining a distance of at least 1.5 metres between people.  Attendance of a funeral is limited to a maximum of 50 persons.  If the venue is too small to hold 50 persons observing a distance of at least one and a half metres from each other. then not more than 50 percent of the capacity of the venue may be used.   Night vigils and After-funeral gatherings "after- tears" not allowed.  The duration of a funeral is restricted to a maximum of  two hours.  HRS FUNERALS The sale, dispensing, and distribution of liquor for off-site consumption and for on-site consumption is prohibited.    Alcohol sales from retails outlets are not permitted.     The sale, dispensing, and distribution of liquor for off-site consumption and for on-site consumption is prohibited.  ALCOHOL Closing time for the following establishments, whether indoors or outdoors, is 20H00. Cinemas Restaurants Gyms and fitness centres Venues hosting auctions Theatres Casinos museums, galleries, archives Venues hosting professional sport 20h00 Gatherings at facilities including cinemas, theatres and casinos are limited to 50 persons or less for indoor venues and 100 persons or less for outdoor venues and if the venue is too small to hold the prescribed number of persons observing  a distance of at least one and a half metres from each other, then not more than  50% of the capacity of the venue may be used.  Gatherings at sports grounds and fields are prohibited for two (2) weeks. after which this provision will be reviewed.  Game parks, botanical gardens, aquariums and zoos that are open to the public shall  be open between 09H00 and 18H00.  AMENDED LEVEL 3 AMENDED LEVEL 3 AMENDED LEVEL 3 AMENDED LEVEL 3 (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); Callers react to decision to move SA to Level 3 Lockdown:  