Relatives of Khanyisile Sibiya who was hacked to death by her partner are appealing for assistance with funeral costs because none of them are working. Sibiya’s two grandchildren, 7-year old Nomcebo Sibiya and 4-year old Asemahle Sibiya, were also killed in the brutal family murder. Her daughter, Dolly Zuma, is angry about what happened. “We as the family are happy that he has decided to abandon his bail because we don’t know how we as a family would have reacted if he was released back to the community. He doesn’t deserve to live within the community.” Neighbours have been taking turns to visit the Sibiya family home, which is within walking distance of the home where the murders took place. One of the neighbours Bafana Nqayi says they are shocked. “This incident has shocked the community especially as we are observing 16 Days of Activism against Women and Children Abuse. The accused was a respected member of the community he was a churchgoer and held a high position within his church.” GBV statistics in South Africa:  Case postponed to January 20 Themba Mkhize (73) from the Pietermaritzburg area has been arrested for the crime. He appeared in the Pietermaritzburg Magistrate’s Court on Tuesday. He has told the court that he would not be applying for bail. The case has been postponed to January 20 for further investigation. Grim discovery The bodies of Khanyisile (46), 7-year-old Nomcebo and 4-year-old Asemahle Sibiya, were found at a mud house in the Hopewell area outside Pietermaritzburg after they were hacked to death. Sibiya’s body was found next to a pit toilet. It is alleged that the assailant rushed out of the house in the early hours of Monday morning draped in a blanket. He allegedly told people that the woman and children had been killed in his house. After the community rallied in shock, they became suspicious and forced Mkhize to remove the blanket. They found his clothes allegedly soaked in blood. Mkhize’s brother-in-law, Themba Kunene, was in another house on the fatal night and says he heard an argument. “I heard the argument next door, but I did not think the fight would lead to such a tragic incident because they had just started dating.  In fact, it was only four days.” 