The mayor of Lekwa-Teemane Local Municipality in Christiana in the North West has been granted bail of R1 000 by the Delareyville Magistrates’ Court. 36-year-old Mpho Pilane has been charged on two counts of sexual assault, rape and abduction. This after he allegedly sexually assaulted and raped two girls aged 15 and 16 years. Pilane handed himself over at the Delareyville police station. This after his case was investigated by the Lichtenburg Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences Unit. According to police, he was charged after the victims opened a case in Christiana where they all reside. The matter was then transferred to Delareyville where the incident happened. Spokesperson for the National Prosecuting Authority, Henry Mamothame, says Pilane will appear in court again in February. “The mayor of Lekwa-Teemane Local Municipality, Mr Mpho Meshack Pilane, 36 years- old, had appeared at the Delarey Magistrate’s Court on two charges of rape, sexual assault and two of abduction. The complainants are said to be minors aged 15 and other 16 years. He appeared in the Delarey Magistrate’s Court and his case was remanded to 22nd of February 2021. He is out on R1 000 bail,” says Mamothame. The African National Congress (ANC) Women’s League in the Ngaka Modiri Molema Region, has expressed disappointment that Pilane was granted bail. “We are very, very disappointed because we learnt that if you don’t have money in our country the justice system will never be on your side. Imagine even though those are allegations how can the mayor be granted bail of R1 000. As the Women’s League in the North West, we won’t be silenced but whatever that is happening, whether you have money or you don’t, or you are occupying a particular position in our organisation, we won’t keep quiet,” says the League’s Regional Secretary Dimakatso Malwane. The ANC Interim Provincial Committee (IPC) says the matter will be formally discussed soon. “The ANC is deeply disappointed because we have a commitment to protect the women and children especially in the wake of the scourge of gender-based violence which has become an epidemic in the country. The IPC will have to express itself with respect to the next course of action, it will appropriately discuss this matter and that the next course of action will be communicated in due course,” says Kenny Morolong, IPC Spokesperson. Pilane, in an exclusive interview with SABC News after his court appearance, said he believes his case is politically motivated. “These are politically motivated and concocted charges, that have been influenced by those that we hold a different political view with. But however, as I believe in in the court of law, actually they are equal to the task. However I will also submit myself and ask for an audience with the integrity commission to go and state clearly my case to actually say what has transpired, and then afterwards I will allow the legal processes and the courts of law to make a determination,” says Pilane. Meanwhile, the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) in the Dr Ruth Segomotsi Mompati Region has called on the ANC to recall Pilane with immediate effect. 