The African National Congress (ANC) has called on all members even senior officials to desist from leaking internal information and reports to the media and public before it’s dealt with by the National Executive Committee. This after a report from the Integrity Commission surfaced on social media and news reports following its meeting with Secretary-General Ace Magashule over the weekend. The committee recommended that Magashule step aside pending the conclusion of his court case regarding fraud and corruption allegations. However, ANC Spokesperson Pule Mabe says Magashule will remain in his position and continue with his duties as the guidelines dictating whether officials implicated in corruption must step aside is still being developed. “We have noted the circulation of such a report on various social media platforms and what appears to have been a leaked report we are aware. The ANC has got its own internal processes. We will interact with reports when they are formally tabled. We will actually call on members and everyone else who occupies a position of responsibility in the movement to desist from leaking information that might otherwise sponsor divisions in the organisation. The NEC has not sanctioned the distribution of any report none whatsoever.” ANC has called on the media and public to allow the party the space to deal with internal processes over the Integrity Commission report on Magashule. “We must be allowed the space to follow through our own processes. Because if we are not loyal to our own processes, who’s going to take us seriously? We outlined these processes to yourselves (sic). So, how do we now change the very processes we have put ourselves and want to introduce new things, and expect society to still accord us the respect. It cannot be.” ANC’s Integrity Commission recommends that Ace Magashule step aside:  Magashule is out on R200 000 bail for criminal charges relating to a multi-million rand asbestos project while he was premier in the Free State. The Integrity Commission says they are concerned that there is a growing negative perception about the ANC’s National Executive Commission on its stance on alleged corruption. It has highlighted the importance of party processes in maintaining the unity of the party and has lambasted what it says are attempts to create division. ANC media briefing on its SG:  ‘ANC unable to act’ Meanwhile, the Democratic Alliance has weighed in saying if the party is serious about corruption, its Secretary-General Ace Magashule and others should step aside. DA spokesperson Siviwe Gwarube says they have long held that the ANC is unable to act against its own leaders accused of corruption. “The DA has long held that the ANC is unable to act against their own corrupt leaders because the issue of corruption runs deep in the organization. The DA has no interest in internal ANC issues because these processes have not yielded any results. In the fight against corruption.” Political analyst Xolani Dube on ANC Integrity Commission recommendation: 