The City of Cape Town has deployed various ground teams to monitor COVID-19 compliance within communities and at its beaches. Mayco member for Safety and Security, JP Smith, says adhering to safety regulations is important amid the second surge of infections. The Cape Metro has experienced an 87% increase in COVID-19 infections over the last week. The City of Cape Town deployed a helicopter on Saturday to get a bird’s eye view of a rather sparsely populated section of the False Bay Coastline. Gusty winds kept most beachgoers away. The City says it is monitoring COVID-19 compliance from the air, but also on the ground efforts are under way to prevent further transmission of the virus. “We were looking at what we are doing in our communities at the moment, we are having to take every possible action to reduce the amount of COVID infections so both from the air and from the ground we are loud hailing, asking people to please observe a safe social distance, avoid large gatherings, wear their masks,” says Smith. City of Cape Town monitors compliance at its beaches amid COVID-19 resurgence:  Residents appeal for everyone to comply The busiest beach days traditionally over the festive season are yet to come. But a few individuals and families have taken some time to enjoy fresh, sea air. Some, like Xolani Williams, say they have cancelled their holidays outside the city. “We are at loggerheads now, they want to go and I’m trying to keep them, that’s why I chose to drive around today and take them to this place because COVID-19 is real, and I’ve seen it. I also lost my brother last of last week in PE. I was at a funeral and I left on a Saturday back to Cape Town and that’s the Saturday he passed away,” says Williams. Resident, Omar Titus, made an appeal to people to wear masks and social distance. “As a family, we try not to gather all together, that’s why the children are not with us today and the grandchildren. We also all take separate turns with the families out, so the children and their children will go out, and we will go out and we do everything via Skype,” says Titus. The City has urged residents and visitors to comply with COVID-19 safety measures to prevent a harder lockdown. SA experiencing a resurgence of infections:  Control measures in Durban Meanwhile in Druban, authorities have set up roadblocks at various entry and exit points to the city.  Spokesperson for the city’s Metro Police, Parboo Sewpersad, says vehicles entering the Beach Front are also being stopped and searched. All beaches in KwaZulu-Natal will be closed on Christmas Day and the 26th of December. KwaZulu-Natal beaches will also be closed from New Year’s Eve to 3 January. Sewpersad says the number of beachgoers continues to be relatively low compared to previous years – due to the coronavirus pandemic. “I can confirm that all the beaches in Durban along the coastline of eThekwini were opened at 09hoo this morning and beaches currently are relatively quiet. The beaches are expected to close at 18hoo this afternoon.  All systems with integrated deployments are in place from the DBN Metro police. The inner and the outer cordon are also in place with excess control,” says Sewpersad.