Political analyst Tessa Doons says the contradictory handling of allegations against African National Congress (ANC) Secretary-General Ace Magashule and KwaZulu-Natal MPL Zandile Gumede, shows factionalism within the party. The party’s Integrity Commission has recommended that Magashule step aside pending the finalisation of his court case relating to alleged fraud and corruption when he was Premier of the Free State. In contrast, the commission has reinstated Gumede to her roles, both within the party and the provincial legislature. Gumede was asked to step aside after she was arrested in connection with alleged fraud and corruption when she was eThekewini Mayor. Doons says the party’s top six need to afford the integrity structures more powers to enforce their rulings. “The top six need to either use their own political ability to sway the SG to step down on his own accord or the organisation needs to think about ways that give teeth to the recommendations of the committee. I am convinced it may be in the Secretary General’s best interest or the ANC’s to step down. The ANC is at war with itself and I do not see them reaching consensus on this particular issue.” Fikeni says the ANC needs to be consistent with its disciplinary processes:  However earlier Political Analyst Somadoda Fikeni said ANC has to regain public trust by openly demonstrating that alleged abuse of state resources by party members will not be tolerated. The ANC called on the public and the media to allow the governing party space to deal with its internal matters. This relates to a report by the Integrity Commission that recommended that Ace Magashule step aside from his role as Secretary-General pending the finalisation of his court case, over allegations of fraud and corruption when he was Premier of the Free State. Fikeni said South Africans are fast losing trust in the governing party. “ANC internal challenges may not be of concern to the public per se, but where public resources are involved, where the capacity of the state to govern is concerned, then it becomes a concern of the almost 60 million people in the country because the aliments and infighting within the ANC have profound implication for the country itself.” The ANC says Magashule will remain in his position and continue with his duties despite the decision by the party’s Integrity Commission that he step aside pending the outcome of a case of alleged involvement in corruption. ANC responds to the commission’s recommendation:  The recommendations by the ANC Integrity Commission are in line with the ANC 54th national elective conference, which stipulates that any leader and or member involved in corrupt activities must step aside from their positions. The ANC continues to debate on how to approach this resolution, with five legal opinions having been consulted on the matter. ANC Spokesperson, Pule Mabe says the matter of officials implicated in corruption is still being dealt with because guidelines are being developed by the leadership. These are expected to be presented to the NEC in January next year.