The World Health Organisation (WHO) has appealed to African countries to strengthen measures to curb the thrashing coronavirus pandemic, as the confirmed cases across the region top 2.5 million. According to the data from Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention, the number of confirmed COVID-19 cases had reached 2.54 million, with a death toll of 60 254 by Wednesday. Stronger response are already in place across multiple African countries. Cabinet of Ministers of Mauritius, the country’s top legislative, recently decided to postpone the reopening of the country’s border to 15 February 2021. Regarding the fact that a new, more contagious variant of the virus has been found in the UK, all flights traveling between Mauritius and the UK or South Africa will be suspended from Monday to 31 December 2020. Kailesh Jagutpal, the Minister of Health and Wellness of the country, says the travel ban will be imposed or lifted based on how the pandemic situation develops. Besides, Namibian Health Minister Kalumbi Shangula announced at a news briefing Wednesday that the second wave of coronavirus outbreak has posed a severe threat to the general public. The Namibian government decided to tighten its anti-epidemic measures in case of virus spreading and collapse of its medical system. The maximum public gathering people’s number has been lowered to 50. A curfew has been imposed from 21:00 to 4:00 the next day. Wearing a mask properly in public places is also compulsory. UK restricts South Africa travel amid new COVID-19 variant strain:  Impact on refugees On the other hand, the pandemic is also having a serious impact on the refugees and low-income groups in less developed countries such as Uganda. The World Food Programme (WFP), the food-assistance branch of UN, also the world’s largest humanitarian organisation, warned on Tuesday that due to an insufficient fund, the agency will have to further cut the monthly relief cash and food rations for the 1.26 million refugees in Uganda. From the next February, those refugees can only have 60% of their full ration. The WHO Regional Office for Africa said in the recent days that the number of new COVID-19 cases across African countries is on a steady increase, and that as the holiday is approaching, it is urgent for the countries to strengthen public health measures to avoid a surge in coronavirus infection cases.