Christmas has come early for the victims of the storm that ravaged large parts of the OR Tambo District in the Eastern Cape. Minister of Communications and Digital Technologies Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams handed over building materials and groceries to the more than 100 affected families. The beneficiaries are from Gxididi village near Mthatha. Many of them were left homeless as the storm destroyed their homes. “We agreed as the MP responsible for Mthatha constituency that it’s important that we make our intervention and definitely for us to do that we needed to reach out to the private sector and other partners that could come on board. Today we are here to share the good news with the communities that were left hopeless to say God and the ANC government is still with you. We do appreciate that you did not give up in terms of taking their lives but they held on but most importantly they will be enjoying their Christmas in their homes,” says Minister Ndabeni-Abrahams. Minister of Communications and Digital Technologies @Stellarated today, handed over building materials and groceries to residents of Mthatha in the Eastern Cape, whose homes were destroyed by storms last month. This is an initiative between the department and the private sector. pic.twitter.com/uueu7xjuco — Dpt of Communications & Digital Technologies (@CommsZA) December 17, 2020  The storm victims are grateful for the assistance. They also hope to never go through a storm like that again. Weziwe Mapeyi says the intervention is a blessing to a large number of hopeless and destitute families. “We thank God for the building materials and food. I am going to put a roof over my head now. I am really speechless. I am a widow; I am now left with four children that are not employed. This is a miracle. “ Mantombi Sithonga received building materials. Her house was severely damaged leaving her family homeless. “I just appreciate what has been done by the ANC at this difficult time when we had nothing, not even have the roof over our heads, I say thank you to the ANC, to the councilor, the premier and all the members of the ANC, I love the ANC.” The private sector has been urged to also assist the storm victims. The November storm moved over a large area affecting people from Mthatha through to Mbizana, hundreds of kilometres away.