Public sector doctors in Limpopo have expressed concern over the recent surge of COVID-19 hospitalisations. Physician Dr. Phetho Mangena says doctors and nurses are emotionally and physically fatigued from long shifts. Mangena says positive infections are rising amongst anxious health care workers. “The anxiety is back once again and with the second wave, apart from seeing more patients infected we are also seeing more of our colleagues becoming sick and there is added anxiety of worrying when our colleagues will be able to get back to normal health most importantly, but also when they can get back to join us and relief us on the front lines. One is on their feet for more hours and one has to run between wards to respond to problems such as a patient who is deteriorating.” Dr. Phophi Ramathuba discusses concerns in COVID-19 cases in Limpopo  Meanwhile, National Education, Health and Allied Workers’ Union, Nehawu, secretary in Limpopo, Jacob Adams, is calling for a review of the current lockdown restrictions. The Coronavirus Command Council met yesterday to decide on whether further measures such a tighter lockdown or stricter rules on public movement should be imposed. The country has passed the 1 million mark of positive cases of the coronavirus whereas the number of death has reached 27 000. “We think we must actually go back to maybe Level three or so but also because of people who are not adhering to in terms of this stricter adherence maybe we must go back to the situation where the South African National Defence Force (SANDF) is also being released you know to help our police,” adds Adams. The Health Minister discusses the latest on COVID-19  Meanwhile, the SANDF has dismissed as fake news information circulating on social media that they have cancelled leave for all members to come back to assist in enforcing the law as cases of COVID-19 are increasing. Fake News | SA Army.#sandf#SANDF#SAArmy pic.twitter.com/cEq6NdkKnD — SA National Defence Force (@SANDFCorpEvents) December 27, 2020 