Police Minister Bheki Cele has conducted a festive season safety campaign at the Beitbridge Border post between South Africa and Zimbabwe in Musina, Limpopo. The port of entry is one of the busiest in the country, with thousands of travellers using it daily during the festive season. Minister Cele was accompanied by his Deputy Cassel Mathale, the police, soldiers and provincial government officials. Cele interacted with officials checking the time taken for trucks to cross the border. Border authorities estimate that it takes between one to four hours for heavy-duty trucks to cross the border into Zimbabwe. This was, however, disputed by some truck drivers. One of the drivers said that it has taken him three days. Minister Cele says the border management authority will improve the security at the port of entry to curb cross-border crime. “We are told that along our borders there would be a few problematic ones, this is one of them.  The other ones being Mozambique and KZN but this is the most problematic one. But with the river, this full this time seems to be better but we’ll have to enhance this port and this place hence I said the BMA and the Minister of Home Affairs they are working on the construction of both the efficiency in terms of the passing of goods,  human beings and the security.” #sapsLIM Police Minister, General #BhekiCele, visits Limpopo Province as part of #SaferFestiveSeason Inspection tour. #TightGrip #PoliceVisibility MEhttps://t.co/IQWoOH5uhZ pic.twitter.com/3j3f7MOo8J — SA Police Service  (@SAPoliceService) December 17, 2020  The Minster also checked adherence to COVID-19 regulations:  Cele also touched on his office’s spat with a Cape Town film company, which was forced to stop filming at a beach yesterday. “We believe we are within our rights, the regulations are very clear that you cannot organise anything either music, either a party or any other thing and we saw their application and the permit it tells us that they’re illegal. They’re wrong we believe, let them go to court, we’ll find them in court.” Meanwhile, a vehicle belonging to Enlightened Christian Gathering – ECG, Shephard Bushiri, was intercepted before it crossed the Beitbridge border post. The vehicle is being kept at a police pound.