ANC NEC member Thoko Didiza says the NEC will decide on the political changes at the troubled Mogalakwena local municipality in Mokopane, Limpopo, when it is informed about the reason to make a reshuffle. The ANC in Limpopo announced the sacking of Mayor Andrina Matsemela, the political management team and members of the executive council two weeks ago. ANC removes Mayor, Chief Whip and the Speaker in Mogalakwena Local Municipality:  Didiza says she believes that the party’s regional executive committee and the provincial leadership have looked at all issues when they arrived at the decision. “Mogalakwena municipality has been having some challenges in terms of governance for instance and they are under administration. I’m sure the provincial and the regional executive have looked at all the issues and seen how best they can strengthen that municipality. The NEC of the ANC, when it’s informed about the reason, will be able to reflect on this issue and take the decision which will be pronounced.” Seven Mayors in ten years Following the sacking of Matsemela, the Mogalakwena municipality is expected to get its 7th Mayor in less than 10 years. In 2012, Esther Mothibi tendered her resignation. Thlelefi Mashamaite was then appointed and two years later, he was voted out as the mayor after being implicated in a forensic report for allegedly misusing R1 million budgeted to the mayor’s office. Malose Mabuela was then appointed Mayor but was removed within a year. Mashamaite was then reinstated but was again axed within six months just before 2016 local government elections to make way for Parks Sebatjane. Sebatjane was removed as mayor after the election and Andrina Matsemela was then appointed. The Mogalakwena Municipality has been marred with political infighting amongst ANC Councillors since 2010. Some municipal workers criticised the ANC for recalling Matsemela instead of dissolving the council. Former chairperson of the Mogalakwena Residents Association (MRA), Percy Nketsi, said political instability is causing factions amongst workers. “The problem in Mogalakwena Municipality is not an individual problem. There are a number of controversial names. They are now saying we must recall Andriana alone and keep those people and the officials will forever enjoy rivalry among themselves. We are saying they must dissolve the council.”