The Economic Freedom Fighters says it is demanding justice for the boy who was killed for allegedly stealing a sunflower in Coligny, North West. Last week,  the Supreme Court of Appeal in Bloemfontein overturned the conviction and sentence of two farmers. They were meant to serve time for the murder of Matlhomola Mosweu in April 2017, after he was allegedly caught stealing sunflower heads. But they are now off the hook. North West EFF Provincial Deputy Chairperson Mothusi Montwedi says they reject the Supreme Court’s decision. “We are not happy as the EFF because we are part of the community with the recently handed down judgment by the SCA in Bloemfontein on the matter involving the killing of a young man. We were in agreement with the initial judgment that the perpetrators must be behind bars for the ruthless killing of a young boy at his innocent age. The life of a young boy was taken by racists and what we are saying is that we want justice to be served against those who took the life of this young boy.” EFF marched to Coligny police station to demand justice for Matlhomola Mosweu:  Farmworkers Pieter Doorewaard and Phillip Schutte were sentenced to 23 years and 18 years behind bars respectively by the High Court in the North West in October 2018. They had been found guilty of murder, kidnapping, intimidation, theft, and pointing a firearm. AfriForum welcomed the court’s decision. Chief Executive Officer Kallie Kriel says justice has finally prevailed. “We are happy about this judgment; you know, the justice system is not having people that are innocent in jail. From the beginning, we knew that they were innocent because it was clear from the evidence that the state’s only witness lied. And that is why AfriForum said we would fund the appeal case. We funded everything, we funded Advocate Barry Roux and the rest of the legal counsel. So now we were shown to be right and we are happy about that, it’s such great pain that someone died but we cannot put innocent people in jail and today we saw justice was done.”