Tensions ran high at Rustenburg, in the North West, after people using ANC T-shirts prevented members of the Greater Rustenburg Economic Change Forum from accessing local municipal offices. But members of the forum were not deterred. Sizwe Dlamini from the Greater Rustenburg Economic Forum says: “From the political point of view, we know that these people are coordinated to come and in a political term, to moer us to give us physical clarity. But we are not there. We are here. We have a political programme. We are clarified about our programme. We are focused.” Chairperson of the Greater Rustenburg Economic Change Forum Jeff Putu pic.twitter.com/qJVpOJBRpM — SentleengLehihi (@sentleL69) December 10, 2020  The Forum was demanding better service delivery and business opportunities for locals. The Rustenburg Local Municipality says plans are in place to address service delivery concerns. However, the local authority called for concerned groups to use available channels to raise matters. Tensions mounting in Rustenburg as people dressed in ANC Tshirts are restricting the Greater Rustenburg Economic Change Forum from accessing the Rustenburg Local Municipality . #sabcnews pic.twitter.com/xBftT1UIRy — SentleengLehihi (@sentleL69) December 10, 2020  In a statement, the municipality denounced the Forum’s march as a ploy by North West Arts and Culture MEC, Tlhapi Galebekwe, as she had been tagged in various social media posts calling for the city’s shutdown. “The municipality is aware that some of the people who have been calling for the shutdown of Rustenburg are officials of the Department of Culture, Arts, Sports and Recreation in the North West province. The executive mayor has expressed his concern at the situation in respect of these individuals,” says spokesperson for the Rustenburg local municipality, David Magae. But, MEC Tlhapi Galebekwe released a statement on social media and says that the unnecessary public spats that seek to create divisions between the department she heads and the municipality – are regrettable and should be condemned with contempt. police and traffic officials deployed in Rustenburg in North West after traffic on N4 was interrupted by members of the Greater Rustenburg Economic Change Forum. Forum embarked on Shutdown Rustenburg March to call for better service delivery and business opportunities #sabcnews. pic.twitter.com/0H6XNyKPu4 — SentleengLehihi (@sentleL69) December 10, 2020  