Some opposition parties in the Vhembe District Municipality in Limpopo believe that the council is unable to discuss VBS related matters because some councillors are implicated in the bank’s collapse. Opposition parties say an item to discuss the VBS saga was removed from the agenda in the council sitting two weeks ago. The municipality lost more than R300 million in the defunct VBS mutual bank. The EFF’s Patrick Mashau says members of the executive council have withheld a forensic report on the VBS matter to protect those implicated. “The forensic report that they brought, there are other members who are implicated. They removed it from the agenda of previous council. They know that because of the factional battle in the ANC, if they bring this report it is going to divide them,” adds Mashau. The ANC’s spokesperson in the Vhembe region Tshifhiwa Dali says issues related to VBS will be discussed in due course as they have nothing to hide. “Our deployees led by the executive mayor comrade Dowelani Nenguda and the collective have the capacity to deal with any form of corruption. We can assure peace loving South Africans that we have nothing to hide. Processes will unfold and people will be informed in due course.” Eight accused in VBS case granted bail In June, the Palm Ridge Regional Court in Ekhuruleni granted bail of R100 000 to each of the eight accused in the VBS Mutual Bank. In delivering his ruling in their bail application, Magistrate Brian Nemavhidi said in view of the state opposing bail, he did not deem it necessary to detain the applicants. According to their bail conditions, the eight accused are not allowed to leave the borders of South Africa, they must hand over their passports, and may not apply for new passports and also not interfere with state witnesses. The accused face 47 charges of fraud, racketeering, corruption, theft and money laundering which amounts to R2 billion. It is believed stokvel groups, pensioners and 20 municipalities lost billions of rands in the looting scheme. The video below is reporting that seven VBS accused in court for trial date: 