United States President Donald Trump is expected to sign a Congressionally-approved spending package that funds the government through to next September, but also includes almost 900 billion dollars in economic relief for Americans. Support in both the House and the Senate were overwhelming as millions suffer under dire economic conditions as a result of the coronavirus pandemic. The relief package was attached to a larger 1.4 trillion dollar funding bill that keeps the government running for the next nine months. It has taken months of political wrangling and compromises from both sides, but the late-night passage of the fifth relief package since the coronavirus pandemic struck the country will bring some reassurance to Americans struggling to make ends meet. “It doesn’t go all the way but it takes us down the path, a first step,” says House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. The bill includes a direct payment of 600 dollars to Americans earning under 75 000 dollars a year with a family of four eligible for $2400; a $300 a week federal unemployment supplement; $25 billion in rental assistance while extending a ban on evictions; $284 billion in paycheck protection programme loans for small businesses; $8 billion for COVID-19 vaccine distribution and with food insecurity on the rise, $13 billion was added to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Programme among other measures. “More help is on the way. Moments ago, in consultation with our committees, the four leaders of the Senate and the House finalized an agreement. There will be another major rescue package for the American people. As our citizens continue battling this coronavirus this holiday season, they will not be fighting alone. We’ve agreed to a package of nearly 900 billion dollars. It is packed with targeted policies that help struggling Americans who have already waited entirely too long,” says Republican Senate Majority Leader, Mitch McConnell. The measure does not include aid for states and local government which Democrats had sought while also excluding protection for businesses against coronavirus-related lawsuits – liability relief which Republicans had pushed for. “Now, while this bill is far from perfect, nor is it the bill that we would pass if Democrats had a majority in the Senate, it is a strong shot in the arm to help American families weather the storm. And whether we have the majority in the Senate or the minority, we, Democrats, are going to push like anything to get a bigger, stronger bill. This bill is a good bill. Tonight is a good night. But it is not the end of the story. It is not the end of the job. Anyone who thinks this bill is enough does not know what’s going on in America, does not look into the eyes of a small business owner who’s losing his business,” says Democratic Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer. Democrats had first sought a package valued at 3 trillion dollars which passed the Democratic-controlled House in May only to be held up in the Republican-controlled Senate, which essentially killed off that effort. A 1.8 trillion dollar version was then scaled back even further to under 900 billion dollars which received both parties’ support. And it comes at a time of dire need for millions of Americans and a labour market that faces a deficit of more than 10 million jobs as a result of the pandemic. President-Elect Joe Biden is expected to seek another relief package once he takes office in January next year.