Traffic has been building upon the N4 toll route, connecting Gauteng, Mpumalanga, and Mozambique. Traffic volume is expected to increase on the province’s road network as migrant workers and holidaymakers head to their destinations. But lack of compliance by motorists remains a challenge for authorities in Mpumalanga.  According to the  Trans African Concessions (TRAC), a company that is managing the N4 toll road, there is a 7-kilometer queue heading towards Lebombo Border. TRAC spokesperson Solange Soares says, “The N4 toll route between Savannah and Mozambique is extremely busy today and is expected to be busy tomorrow as well with the last holidaymakers making their way from South Africa to Mozambique. At this stage, I can report a 7-kilometer queue heading towards Lebombo Border.” Traffic update on Mpumalanga roads:  MEC for Transport in Mpumalanga Gillion Mashego also handed 20 new vehicles to Transport Inspectorate Traffic officers with an aim to intensify festive season operations. After the official handover of the vehicles, Mashego and law enforcement officers held a roadblock on the N4 toll road. Several motorists not complying with traffic laws were nabbed. Some were accused of failing to comply with COVID-19 regulations. MEC Gillion Mashego interacted with passengers on the N4 toll road before discovering that the minibus-taxi they were travelling in is unroadworthy. The driver failed to produce an operating permit. He was also accused of failing to comply with COVID-19 regulations. Mpumalanga Transport MEC, Gillion Mashego has expressed concern about some motorists who are not complying with traffic laws and COVID-19 regulations #sabcnews — SAfm news (@SAfmnews) December 23, 2020  The minibus-taxi was then impounded with all the passengers. 73 road fatalities have been registered in the province since the start of the festive season. MEC Mashego raised concerns that some motorists are still failing to obey the traffic laws. “Compared to last year, currently, in terms of statistics, we are still doing very well comparatively to last year. On the operations that I was here on the road, I was in other parts of the province (and) I’ve seen motorists complying in terms of masks and I have seen motorists complying in terms of sanitiser. Yes, here and there, you’ll have one or two people who are not complying, but generally the message and the observation that we have made is that up to now we are still doing very well.” 