The lack of ventilation and inability to social distance in confined and poorly built structures is a major concern. Mary-Ann Daniels has been living in a backyard dwelling for the past 15 years, due to overcrowding in her Kleinvlei maisonette in which her children live. For people like Daniels, who live with five other people in such a confined space, social distancing is simply not possible. She has no access to running water and Daniels fears contracting the virus. “In the light of COVID-19 I am very concerned because many things are happening, luckily nothing happened to me yet, but I still worry about it, because I can’t even wash my hands since the water is off so how must I manage that.” The Cape Metro is one of the regions experiencing a resurgence in infections. Authorities are appealing to every citizen to adhere to the safety protocols of mask-wearing, sanitising and social distancing. “We now know that the virus spreads through small air droplets that as we breathe in these droplets we are in fact breathing in small particles of the virus so thus it’s important that we avoid gatherings as far as possible, avoid crowded places, avoid confined spaces and avoid close contact.” Quinton Adams, who is known as the shack builder, assists those in need by rebuilding dilapidated dwellings. He says a holistic approach is needed. “The one thing that is very concerning is the fact that it’s overcrowded in the shack because you will find 7 – 9 people live in one apartment or one room and there’s no movement for them and no good ventilation in the shack.” Adams, who runs a non profit company, says the biggest challenge is to educate people on how they can improve their living conditions within informal dwellings. #COVID19 Statistics in SA as at 08 December. Use the COVID Alert SA app to protect yourself, your loved ones and your community. Start using this privacy preserving app today. Add your phone to the fight! Download the Covid Alert SA app now! https://t.co/8YKEqaiiRF pic.twitter.com/YsIgNGMNNF — Dr Zweli Mkhize (@DrZweliMkhize) December 8, 2020  As of today, the total number of confirmed #COVID19 cases is 821 889, the total number of deaths is 22 432 and the total number of recoveries is 753 072. pic.twitter.com/yg5hMS1qch — Dr Zweli Mkhize (@DrZweliMkhize) December 8, 2020 