The OR Tambo District Municipality in the Eastern Cape is working on a new strategy to deal with the rising number of new COVID-19 cases in the district. On Monday evening, President Cyril Ramaphosa named OR Tambo as one of five new hotspots in the Eastern Cape.  The district is home to many rural villages with a large number of migrant labourers. Communities have been encouraged to be extra cautious and prevent the spread of the coronavirus. OR Tambo District Municipality Spokesperson, Zimkhita Macingwane says there are plans for a new strategy to help reduce the number of coronavirus infections. “The technocrats are going to craft a new strategy – a differentiated strategy (on) how we are now going to deal with the reduction of numbers. Now that the president has said we are a hotspot, we need to have a differentiated approach and see how we are going to encourage people to play their part to reduce the infections in their communities.” Communities are aware of the role they must play to contain the spread of the virus, but they’re facing challenges to adhere to the regulations. Nkosinathi Mventse from Payne location says their main challenge is water. “We understand that in order for the coronavirus to be minimised or to be eradicated, it is us the communities that must play the critical role to minimise the coronavirus by social distancing, also to sanitise also to wash our hands frequently. I’m from Payne location. We’ve gone almost three weeks now without the water. So, I think maybe it will also spread the coronavirus.” The Eastern Cape government has raised concerns about the increasing number of admissions in both private and public health facilities. The Eastern Cape government has implored people to adhere to the COVID-19 regulations as the coronavirus infection rate continues to rise in some parts of the province. Gift of the Givers donates beds, oxygen machines As the number of COVID-19 hotspots rises in the Eastern Cape, humanitarian organisation, Gift of the Givers continues to assist health care institutions. One of the struggling facilities, Bhisho Hospital, has received a major boost with equipment ranging from hospital beds and oxygen machines to PPE. This intervention comes as the province records over 7 000 deaths. 