The case of five people accused of the triple murder of the Brand family at Hartswater in the Northern Cape has been postponed to next year in the local Magistrate’s Court. Danie, Breggie and Elzabie Brand were attacked, kidnapped and murdered on their farm in the town in July this year. Their bodies and two cars were found about 30 kilometres from the farm. The accused, Donald Seolesang, Tshepo Visagie, Realeboga Manyedi, Kgomotoso Mpumlwana and Tshepaone Melato are charged with three counts of murder, kidnapping and robbery. Northern Cape National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) Spokesperson Mojalefa Senokotsoane says the case has been postponed to January 7.
 
“The case has been postponed to allow accused No. 4 Kgomotso Mpumlwana to be able to appoint a new legal representative, as well as to enable accused No. 1, 2, 3 and 5 to formally apply for bail. The bail application by accused No. 4 was earlier denied in court.” Senokotsoane says the state will be opposing bail. Meanwhile, the men accused of the murder of farm manager, Brendin Horner, will spend the festive season behind bars following Judgment in their bail application at the Senekal Magistrates Court in the Free State. Earlier this week, Sekwetje Mahlamba was denied bail, while his co-accused, Sekola Matlaletsa was granted R5000 bail. But after his family paid bail, Matlaletsa was re-arrested on another matter, involving rape, kidnap and stock theft. Horner’s murder case made headlines in October after farmers stormed the court building where the two men were appearing. Free State NPA Spokesperson Phaladi Shuping says both accused are facing charges of stock theft. “Sekola Matlaletsa appeared before the Senekal Magistrate’s Court after he brought the application to be released on bail. He was denied bail on the charge of stock theft and then he decided to abandon bail on the charges of two counts of rape and two of kidnapping. The case was postponed to 22 January 2021, where he will appear together with Sekwetje Mahlamba and they will also face a charge of murder.”