The African National Congress Youth League (ANCYL) in Vhembe Region, Limpopo, has accused the party’s Integrity Commission of factionalism after they recommended that Secretary-General Ace Magashule step aside until his corruption charges are finalised. The league’s provincial leader, Fistos Mafela, says the Integrity Commission seems to be targeting a certain faction of the ANC. “We are against the decision of the Integrity Committee and we don’t understand why they don’t want to release other comrades’ recommendations. They release only recommendations for other comrades who seem to be representing a certain faction in the ANC. So, the Integrity Commission must make sure that they do what they are mandated to do by the conference, not to represent the other faction in the ANC.” The report by the commission recommends that Magashule step aside from his position pending the finalisation of his court case, over allegations of fraud and corruption when he was Premier of the Free State. The recommendations by the ANC Integrity Commission are in line with the ANC 54th National Elective Conference, which stipulates that any leader and or member involved in corrupt activities must step aside from their positions. Magashule is out on R200 000 bail for criminal charges related to a multi-million rand asbestos project while he was premier of the Free State province:  Reaction to the recommendation Reacting to the report on Wednesday, the mother body said the Secretary General will remain in his position and continue with his duties despite the decision by the party’s Integrity Commission. ANC Spokesperson, Pule Mabe said the matter of officials implicated in corruption is still being dealt with because guidelines are being developed by the leadership. These are expected to be presented to the NEC in January next year. “The expectation is that early next year when the NEC meets, we are expecting to receive those guidelines from the officials who will also now formally, as a structure, receive reports, including those of the integrity commission, having been processed according to how processes of the ANC are undertaken. The SG remains the SG of the ANC and expected to do the work that an SG for the ANC is expected to be doing.” Mabe has asked the public to give the party space to deal with its issues:  