Police Minister Bheki Cele has expressed concern about the increase in criminal activities in Mpumalanga. Cele accompanied by his Deputy Cassel Mathale participated in a number of law enforcement campaigns in the province as part of the Safer Festive Season Inspection Tour. Cele interacted with motorists at a joint roadblock to check for vehicle roadworthiness, COVID-19 compliance, and traffic violations on the busy N4 outside Mbombela. Some of the vehicles were found to be overloaded, while several motorists had outstanding traffic fines. A number of the motorists were travelling between Gauteng and neighbouring Mozambique and Eswatini to spend the Christmas holidays with their families. Most welcomed the roadblocks on the roads. “I think it is something that has to happen. Everyone must make sure that we adhere to the COVID-19 regulations. We understand that. I am from Mozambique heading to Pretoria with regard to roadblocks,” says one of the motorists. Another motorist says, “I think it helps a lot because many people will take chances. It’s a good idea to have roadblocks on the road.” Crimes on the increase Cele addressed law enforcement officers urging them to crack down on criminals. He said crimes such as murder, house robberies, and gender-based violence are increasing. The minister also urged the officers to deal decisively with the criminals. “The law says you must use deadly force. This word deadly is in the law as you protect your own right, the right of everybody. If you want to maximise the protection, maximise the protection. That is why you have tools. We give teachers chalks; we give doctors stethoscopes; those tools are for you to do the work.” Compliance OF COVID-19 regulations Minister Cele also visited the crime-ridden community of Masoyi near Hazyview. He issued a stern warning to those not complying with COVID-19 restrictions. He said that non-complying businesses will be closed. Department of Transport’s roadblock Meanwhile, Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula accompanied by Mpumalanga Premier Refilwe Mtsweni-Tsipane conducted another roadblock on the N4  in Emakhazeni. About 40 new vehicles were handed over to the traffic police in the province. Minister Fikile Mbalula on a campaign to curb road crashes in Mpumalanga :  We are intensifying road safety efforts, joining the Mpumalanga Premier, the Police Minister and the MEC on a Road Safety Campaign. We’re this month leading intensified 365-days, “Waya-Waya” national road safety and 2020 Festive Season Arrive Alive campaign. pic.twitter.com/bZVsUUYBdE — Minister of Transport |Mr Fix (@MbalulaFikile) December 15, 2020  