Police Minister Bheki Cele has warned the public and business owners that the current regulations will not lapse on January 15. He says they will instead be reviewed and will only lapse when President Cyril Ramaphosa makes an announcement to this effect. Under the new regulations, failure to wear a face mask in public could lead to arrest and/or a fine and imprisonment. The sale of alcohol has been banned along with all social gatherings. In the video below, the President announces ban on sale of alcohol:  Beaches, dams, swimming pools and lakes in hotspot areas have all be closed to the public. There is also a curfew from 9pm to 6am which also applies to New Year’s Eve. Below is the Disaster Management Act Amended Regulations:  Cele was addressing police officers at KwaMashu, north f Durban, during his inspection tour to assess the effectiveness of the measures and interventions in place to ensure compliance to lockdown regulations. “I hear people talking about the 15th that the President has spoken about. They say [the] President said on the 15th and Cele said no. It is not me saying no, the President said these things will be reviewed on January 15. So, on the 15th you go to the beach and you buy alcohol and you open your bottle store? No, you have to wait for the President [to address the nation on the way forward],” explains Cele. The video below is Cele’s address to SAPS officers:  Cele on GBV The Minister has told police officers that they must take complaints of gender-based violence seriously when women go to police stations to report. He says police officers must not tell the complainant to negotiate with the abuser and send them away. Cele said gender-based violence was the police’s second-highest priority after the COVID-19 pandemic. “Whether that is a husband, whether that is a boyfriend, whether is an uncle, whether is a father, whether is a neighbour, it’s not your job at the station as a member of the SAPS to tell the woman to go back and negotiate and maybe there will be peace. It is not your job. Your job is to make a follow-up and arrest that perpetrator. It doesn’t matter who that perpetrator is.”