The African National Congress says the attitude of the City of Cape Town towards COVID-19 regulations is unfortunate. This after police moved in to prevent a film shoot from going ahead at Camps Bay. Police Minister Bheki Cele halted the filming on Wednesday saying the crew was not complying to the COVID-19 regulations. The City said earlier that it would approach the High Court to seek an urgent interdict against the police. ANC caucus leader in the City of Cape Town, Xolani Sotashe says, “For the city to try and undermine the address of the President is so unfortunate and the Minister of Police has a responsibility to enforce the regulations as outlined by the President and other relevant Ministers and so for the city to try and compete with the national government is just out of order.” Amended Alert level 1 regulations SA LOCKDOWN RESTRICTIONS Source: South African government Sale of alcohol at retail outlets now permitted during  licensed trading hours. sabcnews.com | SABC News Channel | SABC Radio news Alcohol permitted for on-site consumption in licensed establishments with adherence to the curfew. Travellers required to present a negative COVID-19 test result not older than 72 hours from time of departure. Travellers may be required to enter mandatory quarantine facilities at their own cost if necessary. The number of people allowed in a retail store, bar, cinema, theatre or other public space remains limited to 50% of its normal capacity to prevent the spread of the virus.   Gatherings are limited to 250 indoors and 500 outdoors.  It is mandatory to wear a mask in all public spaces. Maintain a distance of 1.5 metres  from others.  A curfew remains in place from 12am to 4am.  Conditions to remain in place (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));