Reports from Malawi say the country’s Minister of Homeland Security Richard Chimwendo-Banda has signed the extradition papers for Enlightened Christian Gathering (ECG) Pastor Shepherd Bushiri and his wife Mary. Earlier this month the South African government served Malawi with the extradition request after the Bushiri’s contravened their bail conditions and fled to Malawi. Prophet Shepherd Bushiri, wife Mary extradition process: Advocate Johan du Toit:  The submission followed a request for a provisional arrest which was sent through the International Criminal Police Organisation (Interpol) in terms of Article 10 of the SADC Protocol. The Bushiris are facing charges relating to a multi-million rand fraud and money laundering case. The Bushiris escape to Malawi – Sophie Mokoena weighs in:  However, a High Court in Lilongwe will now have to issue a warrant of arrest for the two to be detained and sent back to South Africa. Meanwhile, the bail application of co-accused of self-proclaimed prophet, Shepherd Bushiri, has been adjourned until tomorrow in the Pretoria Magistrate’s Court. This is to allow his legal team sufficient time to prepare for cross-examination of a state witness. Willah Mudolo is the only one of the five accused who has not yet been released on bail after his arrest in October this year. Bushiri, his wife, Mary, Landiwe Ntlokwana and Mudolo’s wife, Zethu, have all been released on bail. They are all charged with theft, fraud and money laundering involving more than R100 million. The police’s Colonel Daniel Marais has told the court Mudolo is a flight risk and cannot be granted bail as he possesses multiple travel documents and owns property outside the country. Marais testified that Willah Mudolo was intercepted as he attempted to board a flight at the OR Tambo International Airport while being investigated. The group is charged with theft, fraud and money laundering, involving more than R100 million. Bushiri and his wife Mary fled from SA while out on R200 000 bail each. But here at home, their escape might make matters difficult for their co-accused who’s applying for bail. Marais says in one of the transactions the accused was able to settle his debt of more than R8 million while behind bars. Prison officials seized three cellphones from Mudolo’s cell. The accused’s lawyers are expected to cross-examine Marais as Mudolo’s bail application is set to continue on Tuesday. He will appear together with his wife and co-accused, Ntlokwana. They’re both on bail and the court has warned them to make sure that they honour their bail conditions by appearing in court as requested as well as reporting to the police as per scheduled times.