Opposition leader Bobi Wine has called on Uganda’s electoral commission to “take charge or resign.” His campaigning ahead of next year’s presidential election has been marred by chaotic clashes with security forces in which a close friend was injured. Wine has been on the road campaigning ahead of an election next month in which he hopes to unseat Yoweri Museveni – one of Africa’s longest-ruling leaders. He accuses security forces of targeting his campaign: Detaining, beating and killing his supporters. Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for the Lord is with me! pic.twitter.com/cZqDBhGnko — BOBI WINE (@HEBobiwine) December 3, 2020 On Tuesday, Wine’s friend and music producer Daniel Oyerwot, known as Dan Magic, was reportedly hit in the face by a rubber bullet. “Today, they attacked us, shot various people in the legs, and producer Dan Magic who was right next to me, had his face shot at and teeth removed. ” The police said supporters of Wine’s National Unity Platform party had attacked security personnel and disrupted traffic. They said three people, including Oyerwot, had been injured by “teargas fragments” as police and the military dispersed the crowds. Today as we went to meet the Electoral Commission about our brutal treatment, we found these posters all over the perimeter walls surrounding the EC offices, guarded by the police! Not even this smear campaign will deter us from winning our FREEDOM. #WeAreRemovingADictator pic.twitter.com/Pj2RzmQCYL — BOBI WINE (@HEBobiwine) December 2, 2020 According to Wine, his head of security was also injured. “We have asked them to prevail over the police and the military, and tell them to keep out of this election especially the military.” According to President Museveni, 54 people were killed last month as police and the military quelled riots that erupted after Wine was arrested for alleged violation of lockdown rules. Our lives are in danger! After blocking us in Kayunga, on the way to Jinja, they blocked the main road & diverted us to a remote road. As if to set us into a ‘kill spot’, they shot the tyres of my car and directly into our windscreen, narrowly missing Hon Zaake and my driver. pic.twitter.com/Y2dnHA1LyE — BOBI WINE (@HEBobiwine) December 1, 2020 Many in Uganda fear the violence will only escalate ahead of the January 14 poll.