President Cyril Ramaphosa will address the nation on Monday evening on developments in relation to the country’s response to the coronavirus pandemic. This was announced by the Presidency on Sunday afternoon. “The address follows meetings today, Sunday 13 December 2020, of the National Coronavirus Command Council (NCCC), the President’s Coordinating Council (PCC), and a special sitting of Cabinet,” reads the statement in part. According to the statement, the exact time of the President’s address will be announced on Monday. Uncertainty continues to be the order of the day as South Africa’s COVID-19 cases continue to increase during the festive season. Early in December, President Ramaphosa announced that the country was now officially facing its second wave of the stubborn deadly coronavirus pandemic. On Saturday, the Department of Health announced 7 882 new cases identified since the previous report, bringing the cumulative number of COVID-19 cases to 852 965. 5 859 178 860 964 761 011 76 677 23 276 784 287 As at 13 December 2020 39 423 (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));
The sharp rise in infection has forced government to tighten lockdown regulations at the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality in the Eastern Cape. Now with the festive season with us, and many expected to be traveling, it remains to be seen whether the President and the National Coronavirus Command Council will tighten the belt. Panel discussion on SA’s fight against COVID-19:  The global pandemic continues to cause confusion and frustration for many across the world. And now, its South Africa turns again on its second wave. South Africa has registered more deaths and infection due to the coronavirus than any other country in Africa. Earlier this month, the President made his address to what has become to known as the family meeting to update the country about the virus. As the festive celebrations draw closer, many will be traveling as a norm to be with their loved ones. However, it remains mystery on whether some South Africans will adhere to the President’s call. In few weeks, the country has yet again seen an influx in hospital but the fear still remains on whether should other measures from tighter stages be brought back in. Eastern Cape residents are eagerly awaiting an announcement on the closure of beaches and other recreational spaces in the province. Spokesperson for the office of the premier, Mvusiwekhaya Sicwetsha says they have already communicated with the national government about its decision regarding the province. “We have communicated the decision to the national government with the intention of this being a national decision that will also cover other coastal provinces.” “There is a lot of traffic between these (sic). So, it would help stopping the spread of the virus and infecting other parts of the country. We are also looking at other issues like preparations for funerals where there is a lot of cooking and slaughtering and utensils exchanging hands.” Eastern Cape COVID-19 cases a concern:  The increase in the number of new COVID-19 cases continues in the Eastern Cape. In the last reporting period, 1 877 cases were recorded with 97 new deaths.. Numbers show that the Buffalo City Metro has overtaken Nelson Mandela Bay Metro with the number of new cases. Over 400 new cases were reported in Buffalo City while 300 were recorded in Nelson Mandela Bay. There is also an increase in the rate of infections amongst health workers in the metros. While addressing the nation in early December, President Cyril Ramaphosa declared Nelson Mandela Bay as a COVID-19 hotspot. He announced a 10 PM to 4 AM curfew in the metro, among other restrictions. “The curfew will be from 10PM to 4AM. This does not apply to essential workers. The sale of alcohol from retail outlets will only be permitted between 10AM and 6PM from Monday to Thursday. Alcohol consumption in public spaces such as beaches and parks is strictly forbidden. Gatherings, including religious gatherings, may not be attended by more than 100 people for indoor and 250 for outdoor events. And finally, all post-funeral gatherings are prohibited.”