The Department of Correctional Services has confirmed that former African National Congress (ANC) Nelson Mandela Bay councillor Andile Lungisa has been placed on parole with effect from Tuesday. Lungisa is serving a two-year sentence for assaulting a Democratic Alliance (DA) councillor in 2016. Correctional Services says the parole placement means that Lungisa will serve the remainder of the sentence in the system of Community Corrections. Spokesperson Singabakho Nxumalo says Lungisa is expected to comply with a specific set of parole conditions and will be subjected to supervision until the sentence expires. On Monday, the Free Lungisa Campaign expressed their optimism over the parole, saying that are ready and eager to welcome him back into society. He was jailed this year in September for the offence and has made applications for leave to appeal his prison sentence. Correctional Services is releasing Lungisa among a group of prisoners to decrease the number of inmates amid the coronavirus pandemic. The Special Remission of Sentences granted by President Cyril Ramaphosa on 16 December 2019 reduced Lungisa’s sentence 12 months. In the audio below, Correctional Services explains Lungisa’s parole: Over 14 000 inmates have benefitted from it.  Mixed reactions Users on Twitter have used the platform in sharing their news over Lungisa’s parole: The early release of Andile Lungisa makes a mockery of the system. Special remission of sentence my ass. It’s a political decision. If it was me or you, we were never gonna be released this early. — Kgauza Lecowza (@kgaugelo_SM) December 1, 2020  Andile Lungisa will be released from jail today welcome him back to society Bafo pic.twitter.com/HaML9Oe9pI — Keabetswe Nkosazana Manyobe (@KBmanyobe) December 1, 2020  The decision by the parole board to release Andile lungisa from prison must be challenged in court. Their decision was absolutely irrational and unconstitutional. That guy didn’t even serve half of his sentence and already granted parole. — Not Adv Ngcukaitobi (@AdvNgcukaitobi) December 1, 2020  [BREAKING NEWS]
Andile Lungisa has been released from prison on parole. The dark cloud has passed, it is now time to lead your people. Phakama Mbanjwa, Sabela Mashiyane nantsi intshiza pic.twitter.com/B0w7wUmNjE — #BlackLivesMatter (@Pseudonym_X92) December 1, 2020 