The motion of no confidence in President Cyril Ramaphosa has been postponed to February 2021. This comes after the African Transformation Movement’s (ATM) Vuyo Zungula wrote to the National Speaker Thandi Modise, to request that the motion of no confidence against President Cyril Ramaphosa, be postponed to 2021. Modise has received a letter and says she’ll react to this request in due course. The request comes after the Western Cape High Court postponed the ATM’s application that the motion of no confidence be conducted in a secret vote. Modise had earlier rejected the request to conduct the voting through a secret ballot. The ATM says Modise acted irrationally and with bias in turning down the party’s request for a secret ballot. The court will hear the ATM’s application on February 3 and 4, 2021. Earlier, political analyst Lukhona Mnguni said the party should have waited for the Constitutional Court judgment regarding donations for the CR17 campaign before tabling a motion of no confidence against President Cyril . The motion was filed in February before the COVID-19 lockdown began. It is linked to allegations that Ramaphosa misled Parliament about donations made to his ANC presidential campaign in 2017. Analysis of the ATM’s motion of no-confidence against President Cyril Ramaphosa  Meanwhile, another political analyst, Ebrahim Fakir says although the vote of no confidence in President Cyril Ramaphosa comes at a time when he’s in a position of vulnerability, it’s unlikely to succeed. Fakir says it would take a miracle for such a motion to succeed. “Remember, you need 201 members in the majority in terms of the Constitution and even if you have, the DA has already made it clear that it will not support the motion, this is the problem.” “You don’t know that this is going to work. The EFF with its 44 odd members is going to play a game as they always do.” The Democratic Alliance (DA) has already made it clear that it will not support the motion to remove the President. In the video below, Leadership Expert Dr Lazwe Majola says while the motion is unlikely to succeed, the ANC and Ramaphosa need to be concerned the about impact this motion will have on Ramaphosa’s leadership: 