Tourism authorities in Cape Town have appealed to the industry to adhere to all the necessary COVID-19 regulations and protocols. They have warned that non-compliance could have long-lasting effects on the industry and the people who depend on the sector for their livelihoods. The warning comes as hospitals in the metro have reached capacity, due to a sharp spike in COVID-19 hospitalisations. It is one of the sectors which have borne the brunt of COVID-19 and while some in the industry are trying to claw their way back to recovery officials have cautioned against taking any short-cuts. With more than 20 000 COVID-19 positive cases in the Metro Extreme vigilance is required. “This level of new daily infections means that the government will continue to seek ways to reduce the spread. We, at Cape Town Tourism, would like to stress that tourism impacts everyone, from the  General Manager of a hotel to the children of the valet team, and by not playing by the rules, we are putting all their lives at risk in more ways than one. As such, I am appealing to everyone to take this seriously and behave responsibly,” says Cape Town Tourism CEO, Enver Duminy.  Cape Town has always been the jewel in the province’s tourism crown. But amid the second wave of COVID-19, every citizen, business and visitor must take extreme caution. “I have visited many key attractions across the city and have been impressed with the health and safety measures in place to keep employees, and customers safe. I can confidently say that Cape Town is tourism ready. The visitor economy is everybody’s business,” says Mayco Member for Economic Opportunities in the City of Cape Town, James Vos. With trauma and alcohol-related emergencies adding to the already over-burdened healthcare system, provincial authorities are also clamping down on liquor vendors who are contravening the provincial liquor act and disaster management regulations. “Fifty-one licences were suspended, four were revoked and one was cancelled. Minister Fritz further welcomes the 114 enforcement operations conducted over the past week particularly in Khayelitsha, the inspections assist in mitigating alcohol-related harms, particularly as communities such as Khayelitsha are experiencing a surge in trauma admissions related to alcohol consumption,” says  Western Cape Community Safety Ministry Spokesperson, Cayla Murray. Fines to the value of R2.5 million have been issued so far. Premier Alan Winde has outlined a strategy to combat coronavirus in the province:  