Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula has extended the period for renewal of drivers license cards, learners licences, temporary driving licence cards, licence disks, and professional driving permits that expired between the period from 26 March 2020 to 31 December 2020. These expired permits are deemed valid until 31 August 2021. Mbalula signed the directive on 30 November and it has already been gazetted. Licence renewal centres across the country have experienced an influx of South Africans needing to renew their permits resulting in congestion and backlogs as centres keep up with COVID-19 regulations. EXTENSION OF: All learners licenses, driving license cards, temporary driving license cards and professional driving permits that expired from 26 March 2020 to 31 December 2020 are deemed valid for a grace period ending 31 August 2021.# NB: License disks are not included. pic.twitter.com/Gmcc8wRfry — Minister of Transport |Mr Fix (@MbalulaFikile) December 3, 2020  Earlier this week, Mbalula announced the department’s road and safety plans for the festive season. He issued a stern warning to people who drive under the influence of drugs and alcohol during the festive season. “The law enforcement authorities will heighten (the road and safety) operation through multi operations, joint operations and strengthen the emphasis on fatigue management, reckless driving, intoxicated drivers, alcohol abuse and drugs, road rage and patrol vehicles to clamp down on distracted driving, dangerous overtaking and excessive speed. In a country that has seen a spike in the use of recreational drugs, this will constitute one of the focal areas during the festive season and beyond. “ We have handed over vehicles for provinces for law enforcement on our roads. The use of technology to drive law enforcement has been prioritised. These will be fitted with such and be deployed across the country. SAFER FESTIVE SEASON: LIVE BEYOND DEZEMBA https://t.co/txlSaUkTkq pic.twitter.com/9uas0claGg — Minister of Transport |Mr Fix (@MbalulaFikile) December 3, 2020 