Lawyers representing the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) in the party’s legal battle with the School Governing Body of Brackenfell High School in Cape Town, have argued that protests are a means of expression which give a voice to those who lack economic and political power in a democracy. The Governing Body has approached the High Court to apply for an urgent interdict to prevent the EFF from protesting outside the school. There have been protests at the school following reports of an alleged whites-only matric party that was held at a private venue. One of the lawyers representing the EFF, Dali Mpofu, says the school has failed to take action against three teachers who allegedly attended the event. Mpofu says, “How can that be puzzling my Lord, when the teachers were there actively, in that party and at least created the impression that the school endorses this. Then the school should say, let’s say a drug taking party, of the kids, imagine if teachers had done that, would they not discipline them, they would, but no this is anti-black racism.” One of the lawyers representing the governing body, Marius Verster, says they approached the courts in a bid to prevent protests and allow learners at the school to write their exams in peace. Verster says, “We act on the threat that was uttered by Mr (Marshall) Dlamini, during his speech on the 20th of November, and the threat is that the EFF will make the school it’s residence, which means it will come out there and demonstrate at the school and we said that we were entitled to seek an interdict and to persist with this application for an interdict on the basis of that.” Brackenfell High’s application for an urgent interdict to prevent the EFF from protesting outside the school in Cape Town, has been postponed to December 22 for judgment. Meanwhile, the Western Cape Education Department says there is no evidence of racism at the school after an investigation into the private matric party. Below is the interview with, Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schaffer: The South African Human Rights Commission is, however, continuing its own investigation into the matter. [WARNING: LANGUAGE]  Last month, chaos erupted at Brackenfell High School as EFF marches: