The family of SABC 1 soapie, Skeem Saam actor and seasoned playwright, and retired radio personality Paul ‘Bra Paul’ Rapetsoa, has described his death as great to loss to the family and the country. 70-year-old Rapetsoa died in hospital in Polokwane on Tuesday. He was in the process of establishing an online radio station with the help of his son. He is well known for his work in theatre and radio dramas on the SABC’s Thobela FM where he once headed the drama department. Rapetsoa is regarded as the father of township theatre in Limpopo. He has produced, directed and starred in several stage plays in a career that spanned over four decades. He also mentored actors from the province, including late Skeem Saam actor Charles Maja, who died in April, as well as Thobela FM presenter and actor Sebasa Mogale. Some of Rapetsoa’s popular works include the stage play “Get Down” and “My Pride”. He also played the role as ‘Malome Josias’ on SABC I soapie, Skeem Saam. Seasoned playwright, actor Paul Rapetsoa passes on at age 70:  Rapetsoa also founded the Paul Rapetsoa Institute of Dramatic Arts. Rapetsoa’s son, Matome Rapetsoa, says his father’s legacy will last forever because it is relevant. “We are shocked as the family. We are still trying to find ourselves. We are still trying to make sense of the whole thing. It’s not only the Rapetsoa family that is mourning. We know the whole country, Limpopo province as province … I mean Rapetsoa has contributed a lot to province and to the country at large. So, we are all aware that the country is in tears. We are all aware that the country is in pain that the country is mourning.” He, however, says funeral service will be held under strict condition to comply with COVID-19 regulations. “Let’s just get solace from at least the lesson that we learnt from him. We are going to make sure that we still make arrangement within the paradigm of the COVID regulations because that is the one thing that we do not compromise on because we know how dangerous this thing is.” Meanwhile, Premier Stan Mathabatha has also sent his condolences to Paul Rapetsoa’s family.