Newly-elected Nelson Mandela Bay Metro Mayor, the DA’s Nqaba Bhanga, says his main focus is to embark on a massive campaign to flatten the coronavirus curve in the metro. Mbanga says he’ll form strong relations with traditional leaders, religious leaders as well as the business community to instill hope and confidence among residents. “First thing, we are going to put up a campaign, massive mobilisation campaign from all our communities; firstly to educate them about COVID-19 and make them as our partners. Not to enforce it to them but make them partners to fight COVID-19. We are going to engage with business chambers to assist us with this and everybody else. We are also going to meet our partners, health and hospitals. I am going to meet them to look as to what is happening on the ground.” President Cyril Ramaphosa earlier announced measures, including a 10pm to 4am curfew, to try and cap the spread of the virus in the metro. The Garden Route and the Sarah Baartman areas, that also have major coronavirus outbreaks, are also being closely monitored. President Cyril Ramaphosa announces COVID-19 restrictions for Nelson Mandela Bay Metro:  Bhanga was elected uncontested on Friday night. He also says he’ll lay criminal charges against Speaker Buyelwa Mafaya. The election was presided over by Patriotic Alliance councilor, Marlon Daniels after the Speaker was escorted out by unknown men. Bhanga says the meeting that led to his election followed all processes and was legal. Nelson Mandela Bay welcomes proposals to adjust lockdown regulations:  ANC accused of trying to dissolve council meeting Patriotic Alliance National Chairperson, Marlon Daniels has launched a scathing attack on the ANC for trying to dissolve the council meeting claiming it orchestrated the kidnapping of the Speaker. ”Throughout the day, the Speaker was dragging meetings entertaining unnecessary dialogue to buy time for her to adjourn the meeting again. She asked for an adjournment and during that time, they orchestrated to stage a kidnapping, I noticed one of the gentlemen is her own bodyguard.” Nelson Mandela Bay speaker forcibly removed during council meeting: 