Some foreign nationals, crossing into Zimbabwe through the Beitbridge border post near Musina in Limpopo, have called on fellow countrymen to stop illegal jumping of the border fence. A few travellers are entering using the designated border gates while the majority are illegally jumping the border fence, saying they cannot afford the US$60 (over R900) required in Zimbabwe for a COVID-19 certificate. Zimbabwe and South Africa are to beef up security at the border between the two countries ahead of the festive season:  Most foreign nationals still prefer illegal border jumping than using designated Beitbridge border gates despite the fact that Zimbabwe opens its border on the 1st of December.They don’t afford 60 US dollars(900 rand) covid 19 negative results certificate as required in Zim. pic.twitter.com/Gb0dfuoUs6 — rudzani tshivhase (@RTshivhase) December 6, 2020  A woman, who chose to cross through the regulated border gates, says she has her COVID-19 negative results from a test taken less than 48 hours ago as required in Zimbabwe. “I am very happy that the border is open and now I am going home. I can come to Musina to do my shopping. I feel happy that the business is not going to be normal. The COVID-19 letter I have it. It just took me some minutes to have this letter. It might sound like it is expensive, but if you are serious about what you are doing, it is not expensive.” However, the majority of the travellers say they can’t afford the R900 that the Zimbabwean authorities are demanding to get their COVID-19 test results. Some say the illegal crossing of the border is a recipe for the spreading of the virus, as many of them are neither sanitising nor wearing masks. “Me, I am not working. I am suffering. If it was open, we were supposed to walk free. You see that is the problem and this US$60 for testing COVID. You see these people are going to the bush and they are not tested. They are running out of money, this US$60. So, it’s a problem because everybody is going to the bush. They are not tested and it’s a risk for Zimbabwe. A lot who are going there are not getting into the border just because of the money. They must reduce the money so that the people can go through the border they get tested and whatever it is,” one traveller says. Police and traffic officials often conduct roadblocks on the N1.