Social media is abuzz after a video emerged in which Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng delivers a prayer on the caution that must be used when choosing a vaccine to combat the coronavirus. The country’s top judge was delivering the prayer at an event at the Tembisa Hospital, east of Johannesburg, that honoured those who died from COVID19-related complications. South Africa is in the second wave of infections and has registered the most infections and COVID19-related deaths on the continent. Government is studying the data of numerous candidates before purchasing a vaccine. Mogoeng called on higher powers to intervene in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. “I lockout every demon of COVID-19, I lock out any vaccine that is not of you if there be any vaccine that is of the devil meant to infuse 666 in the lives of people, meant to corrupt your DNA. Any such vaccine, Lord God Almighty, may it be destroyed by fire.” The video below is Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng’s keynote address at Tembisa Hospital’s thanksgiving function:  People on Twitter shared their views on Mogoeng’s prayer, with some saying he must stick to his job as the Chief Justice: With due respect, the Chief Justice is being an Epistemic Trespasser. #MogoengMogoeng #CovidVaccine pic.twitter.com/9nzBR5ts6T — Onkgopotse Tiro (@TiroMokoditoa) December 10, 2020  Our honorable Chief Justice #MogoengMogoeng who is not afraid of sticking to what he believes and stand in the gap to call on the Great Name of Jesus! Can he run for presidency already  https://t.co/6ylpXha5rz — Shongy Mrs Mhaleni (@ShongyDaniels) December 10, 2020  WATCH: Dangerous comments from the Chief Justice? With most of the world needing to take a COVID vaccine soon to stay safe, Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng has called for the “rejection” of vaccines that may “be of the devil” or used “to corrupt DNA”. @etvNewsSA pic.twitter.com/90P2vXfpb3 — Nic Andersen (@NicAndersen) December 10, 2020  Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng is adding fuel to fire.. he’s adding more confusion and frustration to already stressed country pic.twitter.com/xEIKI2Ztxo — Sparks (@sello1101) December 10, 2020  MogoengMogoeng should stick to Concourt work. pic.twitter.com/xfrqAyfQ2o — Unathi Kwaza (@Unathi_Kwaza) December 10, 2020  Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng should decide if he wants to be a Judge or a pastor. Imagine a whole Chief Justice preaching “fire fire fire” live on TV about corruption in South Africa meanwhile he knows those people who are corrupt and is afraid to take them to task. pic.twitter.com/tdYf8maQ7c — Felix Mothemane (@felix_mothemane) December 10, 2020  Mogoeng also added that it is an embarrassment that corruption by government officials has been rife during the coronavirus pandemic. He says now is the time for South Africans to find solutions to numerous allegations of corruption in government.