Political analyst Ralph Mathekga says the African National Congress  (ANC) has failed to convince South Africans that it is serious about fighting corruption. ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule appeared before the party’s Integrity Commission at Luthuli House in Johannesburg on Saturday. He says he volunteered to appear before the commission, however, reports say he was under pressure to do so. Mathekga says it will be interesting to see what the commission’s recommendations will be. “In just weeks we will hear, but I will tell you, the integrity commission always functions and business will continue as usual. But it will be interesting to see how the ANC is going to cut this one to do something after failing to do something about it. I just wonder how they are going to crack this one.” Discussion on Ace Magashule appearance before ANC’s Integrity Commission:  The commission is expected to outline the outcome of the meeting soon. It will also submit its recommendations to the ANC’s National Executive Committee. The Integrity Commission has limited powers and can only make recommendations to the National Executive Committee. Some political analysts say this is problematic. Magashule is currently facing 21 charges of corruption, fraud and money laundering linked to the time he served as Free State premier. He is currently out on R200 000 bail. Ace Magashule granted R200 000 bail:  Magashule adamant he will not step aside On Saturday, Maghashule said he believes he made the right decision to appear before the Integrity Commission. However, he remained adamant that he will not step aside. Political analyst Mcebisi Ndletyana said nothing tangible is expected to come out of the commission. “Corruption in the ANC has been institutionalised and a lot of people are implicated. It has been going on for a while. So, even though they might talk of corruption, people are reluctant to act against it because if they do, they’ll also be punished. That’s what you have. Corruption is pretty much paralysing the organisation. I don’t know what the Commission will come up with and in fact, the NEC might not act.”