Home Affairs says plans are under way to implement the rapid COVID-19 testing for holidaymakers arriving at all the ports of entry, without a valid COVID-19 certificate. This is as the country prepares to receive people when they come back from other countries, early next month. Minister Aaron Motsoaledi visited Home Affairs offices in Pretoria to assess COVID-19 compliance. Motsoaledi says no one will be allowed into the country without having been tested or not having a COVID-19 certificate. “Yes, we think about antigen test, especially the border between us and Zimbabwe when people will be coming in because there if you don’t have the 72 hours test certificate you can be tested here and then. It’s a rapid test. It takes about 15 minutes. But we are not going to easily allow anybody just to come into the country without a COVID-19 certificate.” Min Motsoaledi monitors adherence to Covid 19 regulations at the Pretoria Central office with Provincial Manager Kubu Moeketsi, Office Manager Dumisani Ntamela and Acting DDG for Immigration Modiri Matthews. pic.twitter.com/PpgmROj4Do — HomeAffairsSA (@HomeAffairsSA) December 14, 2020  He also interacted with citizens at the officers. He urged them to comply with the coronavirus safety measures. Min Motsoaledi reminds people visiting Home Affairs offices that they should comply with Covid 19 regulations to limit the spread of the virus. pic.twitter.com/hLUEi6rDdX — HomeAffairsSA (@HomeAffairsSA) December 14, 2020  Fake certificates Last week, Mpumalanga MEC for Health Sasekani Manzini, warned people against using fraudulent COVID-19 certificates to cross the border. She was speaking during a visit to the Oshoek Border Post to assess the port of entry’s compliance with COVID-19 protocols. “Now we are told that there are fraudulent tests that are coming here, but we are happy that we have SAPS. The people are arrested. So, be warned that you get a test from a lab that is accredited to do those tests because there are a way and system in place to pick it up.” Oshoek Border Post is one of the busiest ports of entry during the festive season. Fifteen people have so far been arrested for trying to cross the border using fake certificates.