DA Chief Whip Natasha Mazzone has paid tribute to the party’s MP and former spokesperson on Higher Education, Belinda Bozzoli, who has passed away following a long battle with cancer. Mazzone described her as a respected public servant and academic. She says the party will take a moment to reflect on her contribution to its caucus and how they are poorer for not having her any more. Mazzone says Bozzoli was a wonderful MP and a good friend. She says the passing of Bozzoli is a great loss to the DA. “Not only a wonderful MP; a beautiful friend, a wonderful mother and a wonderful wife. Belinda was a public servant of great proportions. Belinda’s loss is a loss not only to the Democratic Alliance, but to Parliament and to South Africa as a whole. Our prayers are with her friends and her family at this difficult time.” In a Twitter post, the DA’s Phumzile Van Damme paid tribute to Bazzoli. She described the late MP as a voice of reason. “So sad to hear of the passing of my colleague, Prof Belinda Bazzoli. Kind, smart, knowledgeable, a voice of reason and love. Deepest condolences to the Bozzoli and Van Onselen families. May they find solace in what must be unimaginable pain,” Van Damme wrote. Tributes continue to pour in for Bazzoli. Deeply saddened by news of the passing of Prof Belinda Bozzoli. As an academic, she helped shine a spotlight on the intersection between race and class exploitation during apartheid. Heartfelt condolences to the family, friends and ⁦@Our_DA⁩ #RIPBelindaBozzoli pic.twitter.com/dqjDhF3v2O — Prof Thuli Madonsela (@ThuliMadonsela3) December 5, 2020  I did not know the DA’s @belbozz Belinda Bozolli. But I knew as an undergrad student at Wits University I knew Prof Belinda Bozzoli. Her voice against racism and discrimination of any form was unmistakable. May her soul Rest In Peace. — Thandile.Ntshwanti- The Ruralitarian Educationist (@TheRuralitarian) December 5, 2020  Oooh dearest, Belinda, Rest In Peace. Thank you for the memories, witty zingers and constant encouragement for academic empowerment. pic.twitter.com/79Ljy3w0GZ — SollyMalatsi (@SollyMalatsi) December 5, 2020 