The Constitutional Court will hear an urgent application today to force former President Jacob Zuma to testify before the State Capture Commission. The Commission filed an urgent application to the Constitutional Court, asking it to order Zuma to comply with a new summons to appear and give evidence in January and February 2021. Zuma walked out of the Commission without the chairperson’s permission on November 19. This after Zuma’s failed lodged application asking for the recusal of the Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo as the chair of the Commission. Zuma believes that there is a level of bias against him and a lack of impartiality.  The relationship between Raymond Zondo and Jacob Zuma. Zuma nominates Zondo 3 March 2017  Judge Raymond Zondo is nominated by President Jacob Zuma as the Deputy Chief Justice of the Republic of South Africa.  09 January 2018  President Jacob Zuma announced the establishment of the Commission of Inquiry into State of Capture and the appointment of Deputy Chief Justice Zondo as its chairperson. Zondo to chair commission Commission biased towards Zuma 17 July 2019 15 July 2019  After 130 days of testimony from more than 80 people, Jacob Zuma appears before the State Capture Commission. On the second day of his appearance, Zuma dropped a bombshell that his PA had received a phone call threatening him, children and his legal counsel. In response, Chairperson Raymond Zondo says the fresh threats against Zuma were unacceptable. Zuma makes commission appearence Zuma‘s legal team threatened to pull out  of commission after complaining about the line of questioning by evidence leader Advocate Paul Pretorius. Zuma’s lawyer, Advocate Muzi Sikhakhane says that Zuma was brought to the Commission under false pretence. The State Capture Commission has not confirmed whether former President Jacob Zuma has submitted his response to an application for cross examination by veteran journalist Redi Tlhabi. Deputy Chief Justice, Raymond Zondo revealed that former President Jacob Zuma has not filed his affidavit before the State Capture Commission answering to certain matters.  Zondo sets down a non-negotiable ruling that Zuma should appear before the commission on the 16th to the 20th of November. 09 December 2019 02 03 21 September  2020 The letter by the Jacob Zuma Foundation penned a scathing letter to the chairperson of the State capture commission accusing him of being obsessed with the former President. 24 September  2020 03 28 September  2020 Zuma's lawyers request Deputy Chief Justice, Raymond Zondo to recuse himself as the Chairperson of the State Capture Commission. Your health is our priority Deputy Chief Justice, Raymond Zondo, has ordered that a summons be issued for the former president to appear before the State Capture Commission from the 16th to the 20th of November Zondo summons Zuma Zondo acknowledges child with Zuma’s sister in-law Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo has responded to allegations of historic family relations between himself and former president Jacob Zuma. Justice Zondo issued a statement explaining that he fathered a child with the sister of Zuma's estranged wife, Thobeka Madiba-Zuma more than 25-years ago. 09 October 2020 29 October 2020 (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); The former President also made it clear that he does not believe the concept of State Capture exists, and that it is a political and not an investigative project. The court had given Zuma until December 14 to file his answering affidavit in the matter, with the State Capture Commission being given until December 17 to file any responding papers. Zuma’s team did not file any paper meaning the hearing will be unopposed. The Helen Suzman Foundation, CASAC, and Advocate Vuyani Ngalwana have applied to be amicus curiae. This morning’s court application is also seeking an order declaring Zuma’s conduct unlawful and in breach of the Commission’s Act. The Commission wants Zuma to respond to allegations made against him by more than 30 witnesses. They include former ministers and deputy ministers, former directors-General, MPS, and former executives of several State-Owned Enterprises. Disrespect for rule of law Meanwhile, the Director of the Council for the Advancement of the South African Constitution Lawson Naidoo says Zuma’s refusal to participate in the proceedings will be a total disrespect for the rule of law. “It is a disrespect for and a dismissive response to the highest court in the land. But it is consistent with Mr. Zuma’s approach to all matters relating to investigations into allegations of State Capture. Whilst Mr. Zuma is under no obligation to oppose the application that has been launched by Professor Mosala on behalf of the commission of inquiry the letter could have been couched in more diplomatic terms and made it clear that the former president will abide by the decision of the court. This demonstrates that Mr. Zuma a former President the holder of the highest office in the land has no regard for the courts the judicial system and indeed for the rule of the law. ” Additional reporting Ntebo Mokobo