South African Federation of Trade Unions (SAFTU) President, Mac Chavalala, has reiterated his federation’s call for the working class to unite. He says the unity of workers will defeat exploitation and unfair labour practices that, he says, is continuing unabated. Tshavalala addressed delegates at the North West SAFTU First Provincial Congress held in Mahikeng. [HAPPENING NOW]#SAFTU North West Inaugural Congress pic.twitter.com/M6Jy1kHji4 — SAFTU (@SAFTU_media) December 12, 2020 An elective congress attended by close to 150 delegates. During the congress, issues affecting workers were at centre stage. They include among others, retrenchments, Gender-Based Violence (GBV) and unfair labour practice. Chavalala believes if workers are united, all these challenges can be defeated. “SAFTU’S responsibilities must be to unite the working class in this country, irrespective of the federation they belong to, irrespective of the union they are coming from. The workers and the working class in general must be united. At least, if there must be one thing that we agree on, comrades we can’t differ on unity of the working class.” Chavalala has also encouraged delegates to consider opening discussions on a political party that will champion workers interests. “It’s key that the working class unite also that the working class ensure that the issue of political power is brought back on the table of the working class for them to discuss and to make sure that, that party must be a party that is going to champion the working class interests.” Some of the delegates concur with their leadership for an alternative political party. “We have realised that most of the parties that are in South Africa now, they are pushing their own agendas. They are more likely on their own rather than on the interest of the workers.” “I don’t want to be biased but I am really looking forward to the new party that can take over and look at the interest of the country and the community at large.” The federation has also raised concerns regarding corruption that has ravaged the country.