Both the South African Council of Churches (SACC) and the Muslim Judicial Council (MJC) have called on members of the public to minimise social gatherings. They are also calling for the postponement of weddings to a later, possibly safer date, and have appealed that only the bare minimum of mourners attend funerals. South Africa has surpassed the one million mark of COVID-19 infections. The MJC has recommended that all mosques be closed until further notice, as COVID-19 infections spike across the country. The cumulative number of infections has now surpassed the one million mark. There are a total of 132 000 active cases  and more than 26 700 deaths recorded:  The MJC says mosques that cannot implement the COVID-19 protocols should immediately close. “We are very much aware that our health facilities are under extreme pressure dealing with an influx of cases, hospitalisation of COVID cases as well as trauma cases that are normal this time of the year. Therefore, we are calling on our communities to play their part to do the necessary sacrifices for the greater good of our country,” says MJC’s Secretary-General, Shaykh Zaid Dantie. The call comes as COVID-19 infections spike across the country. The Western Cape currently has more than 37 000 active cases of COVID-19. “We have made a call to all those who believe in God to act in ways that preserve life and those ways include people who show solidarity with one another and show solidarity with those who have lost their family members to allow themselves to be a sense of support for one another and also to work very hard to minimise any gatherings that are going to easily turn out to be super spreaders,” says Director for Church Liaison and Community Empowerment for the SACC, Reverend Mzwandile Molo. Meanwhile, the country anticipates an address by President Cyril Ramaphosa. This following an urgent meeting with the National Coronavirus Command Council. With pressure mounting on the healthcare system, the South African Medical Association has, among others, called for church gatherings to be held outdoors. Nursing union, Denosa wants the country to be placed back on lockdown Level 5.