African Union (AU) Chair and South African President Cyril Ramaphosa has called for the lifting of crippling economic sanctions on Zimbabwe and Sudan. President Ramaphosa, who was addressing a special session of the United Nations General Assembly on the COVID-19 pandemic, expresses South Africa’s appreciation for the assistance and solidarity received from the international community but warns that it was only through continued multilateral cooperation that the world can overcome this global emergency (coronavirus pandemic). “We reiterate our call for a comprehensive economic stimulus package for Africa, for a suspension of interest payments on Africa’s external and public debt, and for the lifting of all economic sanctions imposed on Zimbabwe and Sudan to allow them to adequately respond to the pandemic. It is only through multilateral cooperation that we can overcome this global emergency. We must continue to support the World Health Organization as the lead UN agency mandated to coordinate the global effort. We must continue to drive a holistic response to COVID-19 that recognises the relationship between health, social, economic, and environmental measures.” Building a strong recovery Addressing the same gathering, UN Chief Antonio Guterres calls for a global reset towards building a strong recovery. He chastises countries that ignored advice from the World Health Organisation during the early stages of the pandemic. “From the start, the World Health Organization provided factual information and scientific guidance that should have been the basis for a coordinated global response. Unfortunately, these recommendations were not followed. Some countries continue to reject facts and ignore the guidance. And when countries go in their own direction, the virus goes in every direction.” Guterres warned that the Access to COVID-19 Tools  (ACT) Accelerator and its COVAX facility are still experiencing a funding gap of some 28 billion dollars, with an imminent shortage of 4.3 billion dollars required for the next two months. “Looking ahead, the recovery from COVID-19 must address the pre-existing conditions it has exposed and exploited, from gaps in basic services to an overheated planet. Stronger health systems and Universal Health Coverage must be a priority. Since 2007, the World Health Organization has declared six Public Health Emergencies of International Concern. COVID-19 will not be the last. We must apply the lessons learned if we are to meet our responsibilities to our children and grandchildren. Social safety nets must work for everyone. Too often, they fail precisely when they are needed most. A new social contract between people, governments, the private sector, civil society and more, can tackle the roots of inequality with fair taxation on income and wealth, universal benefits, and opportunities for all.” The special session of the United Nations General Assembly on the COVID-19 pandemic:  