Government has warned that the spreading of the coronavirus at the matric rage parties across the country is evidence that alcohol consumption and mass gatherings are COVID-19 high risk events. In a statement, the Health Ministry says parents must set boundaries for young people at this time when a second wave of the coronavirus could cause major problems for the country. In the video below, Rage 2020 matric events have been identified as super spreader for COVID-19:  The department says all those who attended the recent rage events should get a coronavirus test as soon as possible. “We can confirm that we have identified a number of COVID-19 confirmed cases arising from these super-spreader events. This means that if you attended any of these Rage events, you are now regarded as a contact.” We wish to make an urgent announcement to all parents and learners regarding a super- spreader event that has been identified. pic.twitter.com/YMcnPA3QYx — Dr Zweli Mkhize (@DrZweliMkhize) December 6, 2020  It is also urging all those who attended the Rage events should also self quarantine immediately. There are concerns that young people could pass the virus on to more vulnerable family members – like parents and grandparents. The ministry has urged people to download the COVID-19 alert App. South Africans are also urged to continue wearing masks, as well as practice social distancing and regular hand washing.  Johannesburg GP Dr Sheri Fanaroff offers some guidelines for matriculants returning from Rage.https://t.co/Y5jhtnnF0j — Department of Health: COVID-19 (@COVID_19_ZA) December 6, 2020  Meanwhile, South Africa has recorded 4 116 new COVID-19 cases, bringing the national positive total to 814 565. Gauteng still has for the most cases, accounting for 29.2% (237 719) of total cases.  #COVID19 Statistics in SA as at 06 December. Use the COVID Alert SA app to protect yourself, your loved ones and your community. Start using this privacy preserving app today. Add your phone to the fight! Download the Covid Alert SA app now! https://t.co/8YKEqaiiRF pic.twitter.com/JBwQIY8XgD — Dr Zweli Mkhize (@DrZweliMkhize) December 6, 2020 