Striking workers at Lanxess Chrome Mine outside Rustenburg in the North West have threatened to intensify their protest action if management continues to ignore their demands. The protest has entered its second week with miners staging a sit-in underground and above the surface. About 150 workers who have staged a sit-in get food and water from their colleagues and relatives under strict conditions, set by the mine. The protest, which escalated into an underground sit-in last weekend, is aimed at highlighting the plight of part-time workers. In the video below which was shot last week,  Numsa representative Nere Moase explains the workers’ grievances:  Striking workers are demanding that mine management stop hiring unregistered contractors. Workers have vowed not to resurface until the mine management enters into negotiations with their unions. National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa (Numsa) Shopsteward, Wiseman Tabane, says they are not bothered by the mine’s ‘no work no pay’ principle due to their unprotected strike. “Yes, they say it’s ‘no work, no pay’, but the workers here want corruption to end and also note that they own a 26% shareholder stake and so, they are not happy that some contractors were brought in without their knowledge.” Workers say at times it is difficult to deliver food for the colleagues who have staged an underground sit-in for more than a week. They accused mine management of ignoring them. “The situation is bad up to so far, and the people are hungry. But it’s difficult when the people try to bring them food. The food is also not enough. But we are pushing,” says one miner. Workers also say unregistered contractors are involved in corruption with the mine. They add that despite deductions going off their salaries, the mine does not contribute to the Unemployment Insurance Fund (UIF) and other benefits. Ben Marais, who speaks on behalf of the mine management, says the strike action is illegal. “So, we condemn this action in the strongest possible terms and we cannot say this action is defensible in any particular way. They’re underground unlawfully. No safety gear and in contravention of the mine health and safety act.” Three striking workers, two women and a male colleague have been taken to hospital due to dehydration. Mine security guards are keeping a close watch at the situation. All entrances that lead to mine shafts and offices are beyond limits for walk-in visitors, including colleagues of the striking workers.