The Department of Health says two South Africans working on Japanese Princess Diamond Cruise ship have tested positive for the coronavirus. Globally, more than 80 000 in nearly 50 countries – have been infected with the virus and close to 2 800 people have died the majority in China’s Hubei province. There are rising fears that the COVID-19 virus could spread further. Japan’s health minister says 41 people on board the Diamond Princess had tested positive for coronavirus in addition to 20 previously identified cases, with those infected being moved to hospitals on land. The Diamond Princess had been quarantined to ensure that the virus does not spread into mainland Japan. The World Health Organization (WHO) has declared the outbreak a Public Health Emergency of International Concern. In the video below, Dr Lwazi Manzi gives an update on the two South Africans who tested positive for coronavirus.  Repatriation South Africa is preparing to repatriate 132 citizens who are in the Wuhan province in China – the epicentre of the virus. The Department of Health and Defence are to deploy healthcare personnel and supporting staff to provide assistance during the repatriation and quarantine processes. The presidency also said the repatriated individuals will be placed in quarantine for 21 days as an additional precautionary measure. The repatriation of South Africans from the epicenter of the COVID-19 outbreak was announced by Ramaphosa on Thursday. He ordered the repatriation of South African citizens in Wuhan City after extensive communication with the families of all affected individuals and relevant departments have made the necessary arrangements to receive them. Dr Sibongile Walaza gives an update on the conoravirus  First case of Coronavirus in sub-Saharan African Meanwhile, Nigeria has confirmed its first case of coronavirus, the health ministry said on Twitter on Friday. This is the first case in sub-Saharan Africa, as infections spread rapidly worldwide. The ministry said the case was in the state of Lagos, home to the southwestern commercial capital of the same name. Lagos is the biggest city in Africa’s most populous country, with a population of about 20 million. “The cae is the first to be reported in Nigeria since the beginning of the outbreak in China in January,” the health ministry said in its post, adding that the infection was confirmed on Thursday. A presidency spokesman did not immediately respond to phone calls and text messages seeking comment. Below is a Live Tracking of the cases, death toll and other information: 