National Assembly Speaker, Thandi Modise, is to oppose Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane’s application to halt the process to declare her unfit to hold office. Mkhwebane wants the process suspended saying it’s unfair and unconstitutional. She has accused Modise of siding with President Cyril Ramaphosa in a legal dispute with him regarding a BOSASA donation to his African National Congress (ANC) presidential election campaign in 2017. In her report, Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane found that Ramaphosa deliberately misled Parliament when he failed to divulge the details of the donations his African National Congress (ANC) presidential campaign received; in particular, a payment from Bosasa. The late CEO of Bosasa, Gavin Watson, donated R500 000 to Ramaphosa’s 2017 campaign. Mkhwebane concluded that there was merit to allegations of money laundering and found that Ramaphosa had violated the executive code of ethics and may have exposed himself to a conflict of interest in receiving certain donations. Ramaphosa’s lawyers have criticised Mkhwebane’s investigation as unlawful and malicious. Watch video below for more:   DA’s motion of no confidence against Mkhwebane The Democratic Alliance (DA) first instituted a motion to remove Mkhwebane from office after a number of adverse court judgments against her. Parliamentary Spokesperson, Moloto Mothapo, says Modise’s aim is to defend the National Assembly. “She will oppose the application in defence of the constitutional powers of Parliament to hold the chapter nine institutions accountable because the constitution states that the public protector and other chapter nine institutions are accountable to the National Assembly,” says Mothapo. Mkhwebane has applied for an interdict to prevent the process from going ahead. In court papers, she gave Parliament and all other respondents until Monday to file their intention to oppose. Mothapo says Parliament is opposing the application to interdict. Watch a related video below:   Thandi Modise responds to Busisiwe Mkhwebane’s letter: DV.load("https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/6750284-NO-LEGAL-GROUND-EXIST-NOT-to-IMPLEMENT-NEW-RULES.js", {  responsive: true,    sidebar: false,    text: false,    pdf: false,    container: "#DV-viewer-6750284-NO-LEGAL-GROUND-EXIST-NOT-to-IMPLEMENT-NEW-RULES"  });