Democrats scrambled to gain an edge with voters on Saturday on the last weekend before the party’s next presidential nominating contest in New Hampshire, where Pete Buttigieg began drawing fire as the candidate on the rise. The problems that plagued the Iowa caucuses overshadowed any victory bump before New Hampshire’s contest on Tuesday and cast a pall as the Democratic Party began the process of picking a nominee to face Republican President Donald Trump in November. Still, the 38-year-old former mayor of South Bend, Indiana, is enjoying a boost after coming out of Monday’s caucuses tied with U.S. Senator Bernie Sanders. Both men claimed victory, while Senator Elizabeth Warren followed in third place and former Vice President Joe Biden trailed in fourth. As some public opinion polls showed “Mayor Pete” gaining ground in New Hampshire, the slings and arrows were not far behind. “He’s a good guy,” Biden said in Manchester. “He’s a great mayor. But guess what? He was a mayor.” Here is what is happening in New Hampshire on the campaign trail. After what has been a mostly affable Democratic campaign, Biden’s team pulled off the gloves and targeted Buttigieg with a withering digital ad that pits Biden’s decades of experience in public life against that of the two-term mayor. The video makes liberal use of popular former President Barack Obama in a belittling rundown of some of the smaller issues Buttigieg faced as mayor and also takes a swipe at his troubled record with African Americans. It shows Biden helping pass the Affordable Care Act while Buttigieg installed decorative lights under city bridges; Biden helping secure the Iran nuclear deal while Buttigieg negotiated lighter regulations for pet chip scanners; Biden helping save the U.S. auto industry while Buttigieg “revitalized the sidewalks of downtown South Bend” with decorative brick. The ad, which will run on Facebook and YouTube in New Hampshire, extols Biden’s work on the assault weapons ban, while noting that Buttigieg forced out the city’s black police chief. “We’re electing a president. What you’ve done matters,” the ad says in closing. Buttigieg spokesman Chris Meagher derided the spot as Washington politics as usual that trivialized the concerns of ordinary communities. “The vice president’s decision to run this ad speaks more to where he currently stands in this race than it does about Pete’s perspective as a mayor and veteran,” he said. Biden, 77, finished a distant fourth in Iowa and all but conceded he would lose New Hampshire in the first moments of a Democratic debate on Friday night. For months, people close to the Biden campaign had said going negative would be harmful to his political brand, which is built around empathy and optimism. But his poor finish in Iowa seems to have altered that calculus. In New Hampshire, he has been much more critical of his rivals by name. The Buttigieg ad marks a significant escalation that likely carries some risk of blowback. FRONT-RUNNER TO UNDERDOG? At a campaign event in Manchester, New Hampshire, Biden began to reframe himself as an underdog. “I’ve never paid attention to all this front-runner talk since I entered the race.” He listed various political and personal setbacks on his life. “I know nothing comes easy.” He warned that nominating Buttigieg or Sanders would be an unacceptable risk for Democrats. In line with the ad, he made light of Buttigieg’s tenure as mayor of South Bend, saying there was a difference between managing the budget of a small city and his own work marshaling the $900 billion Recovery Act economic stimulus package through Congress after the 2008-2009 recession. Of Sanders, Biden said for all his time in Congress, Sanders had made no progress in getting his Medicare for All plan passed. “He hasn’t been able to move the ball a single inch.” Billionaire Democratic candidate Michael Bloomberg, who campaigned in Oklahoma City on Saturday, racked up another endorsement, this one from U.S. Representative Haley Stevens, one of 31 Democrats who represent congressional districts that Trump won in 2016. Another of those Democrats, former Navy helicopter pilot Mikie Sherrill, endorsed Bloomberg on Thursday, followed by former Navy Secretary Richard Spencer on Friday, making him the first high-level former Trump administration official to back a Democratic hopeful in the 2020 election. In Manchester, Elizabeth Warren held a rally for nearly 800 volunteers before they went door-to-door on a frigid afternoon. “There’s still a lot of folks out there who are really starting to get worried – worried that this fight against Donald Trump might not be winnable,” she said. “You know, the way I look at this, I’ve been winning unwinnable fights pretty much all my life.”