Despite the ban in 2008 on the use, manufacturing and processing of asbestos in South Africa; there are still some houses with asbestos roofing sheets. Most of these houses in Atteridgeville, Mamelodi and Mabopane in Pretoria were built in the 1950s. Asbestos is a dangerous material which causes mesothelioma, a cancer of the mesthelial tissue. Experts say asbestos roofing is not as harmful as the asbestos particles found at mines, but with these homes being older than 50 years, it still poses a threat to occupants. Prolonged exposure can cause several lung and other diseases. 70-year old Mariah Makobe has been living in her house for over 50 years. She says she had to install a ceiling in her house to avoid the asbestos as she is asthmatic. Her neighbour, Wilhemina Juwawa is 50 years old and has lived in Atteridgeville all her life. She and her husband’s health is deteriorating. Juwawa has called for help to remove asbestos roofing sheet from her house before it’s too late. “I think it’s affecting us because my problem is that I have asthma…So I plead to government to come and please take out this and put something else for us; whether it’s a tile or anything, they must just come and take out the asbestos.” Prized for its high strength, heatproof and fireproof qualities, the tiny fibres of asbestos can cause fatal and debilitating illness such as asbestosis after penetrating deeply into the lungs. City of Tshwane’s MMC for Human Settlement is Sello Maimane says the Metro needs direction and funds from the Gauteng Human Settlement department to attend to remaining asbestos roofing sheets in the city. “Remember us as housing as a municipality, we serve as an agency for the Gauteng province department. So in most cases, they provide a budget for us and they tell us which project we can do. So based on the availability of the funds and a mandate from the province, we will be embarking on that. If they make money available then we will be able to embark on that programme.” Dr John Ndimande from the Gauteng Health Department is calling affected home owners to have the asbestos roofing removed urgently. “Some matters do not change. It definitely exposes people, especially if they are old and they can easily rust or even crust when they are exposed to such weathers. For that reason then we don’t want to have people living in those houses because then they are exposed to asbestos.” Experts also say smashing down asbestos roof sheets and gutters without adequate safety precautions may create a bigger health risk.