Community members of the Connaught Estate in Elsies River, Cape Town, have gathered outside the home of 8-year-old Tazne van Wyk whose body was found in Worcester on Wednesday night. She was last seen two weeks ago while walking to the shops in Ravensmead. A 54-year-old suspect, who was arrested earlier this week in Cradock in the Eastern Cape, was brought to Cape Town last night and led detectives to the body. He is expected to appear in the Goodwood Magistrate’s Court on Friday on a charge of murder. The Van Wyk family has spoken out for the first time. Family member Samantha Viljoen says her murder could’ve been prevented.   TAZNE VAN WYK pic.twitter.com/I1hO34XLaC — Robin Pieters (@iamRobinP) February 20, 2020  South Africa has failed you Rest In Peace Click below for reactions to Tazne’s body being found:  ‘Heartfelt condolences’ The Western Cape Minister of Community Safety, Albert Fritz, has expressed shock and sadness following the discovery of the body. Fritz’s spokesperson, Cayla Ann Murray elaborates: “Minister Friz said: ‘I wish to extend my heartfelt condolences to the family of Tazne van Wyk. They have endured a tumultuous period of uncertainty, confusion, and pain. No parent should have to endure the loss of their child. A social worker will be deployed o debrief the family following the news of Tazne’s death.'” Murder cases in Elsies River The rate of According to the 2019 crime stats, Elsies River had 90 murders.  Four people were shot and killed in Clarkes Estate in Elsies River on the Cape Flats the same year. In 2018, the killer of three-year-old Courtney Pieters was given two life sentences in the High Court in Cape Town. Mortimer Saunders was convicted on rape and murder charges a few weeks ago. Courtney’s body was found in Epping Industria in May 2017 after she had been reported missing from her Elsies River home.  Violence against women and children recently has been central to debate in the country. Provinces like Limpopo and KwaZulu-Natal have experienced a number of child murder cases. On Wednesday a 50-year-old man suspected of killing his 4 children will appear at the Mecklenburg Magistrate’s Court near Burgersfort in Limpopo on Thursday. Villagers of Ga-Phasha Selatole in Sekhukhune are still in shock following the deaths. Their mother is receiving counselling at a place of safety.  