The Presidency says none of the people being repatriated from the Chinese city of Wuhan have been diagnosed with the coronavirus nor have they exhibited any symptoms suggesting that they have the virus. In a statement, President Cyril Ramaphosa assured the country that none of the 132 South African citizens have been diagnosed with coronavirus. The Presidency also said the repatriated individuals will be placed in quarantine for 21 days as an additional precautionary measure. The repatriation of South Africans from the epicenter of the COVID-19 outbreak was announced by Ramaphosa on Thursday. He ordered the repatriation of South African citizens in Wuhan city after extensive communication with the families of all affected individuals and relevant departments have made the necessary arrangements to receive them. The Departments of Health and Defence will deploy healthcare personnel and supporting staff to provide assistance during the repatriation and quarantine processes. Public Health Emergency The World Health Organization (WHO) has declared the outbreak as a Public Health Emergency of International Concern. Ramaphosa expressed his sincere gratitude to the Chinese Government and people for their assistance and support and reiterated South Africa’s confidence in China’s ability to control the outbreak. It is estimated that there are 199 South African citizens living in Wuhan.   First case of coronavirus in sub-Saharan African – Nigeria Meanwhile, Nigeria has confirmed its first case of coronavirus, the health ministry said on Twitter on Friday, announcing the first case in sub-Saharan Africa, as infections spread rapidly worldwide. The ministry said the case was in the state of Lagos, home to the southwestern commercial capital of the same name. Lagos is the biggest city in Africa’s most populous country, with a population of about 20 million. “The case is the first case to be reported in Nigeria since the beginning of the outbreak in China in January,” the health ministry said bit.ly/2HZQrO0 in its post, adding that the infection was confirmed on Thursday. A presidency spokesperson did not immediately respond to phone calls and text messages seeking comment. Hopes that the virus would be contained to China vanished on Friday as infections spread, with countries beginning to stockpile medical equipment and investors taking flight in expectation of a global recession.  Below is a Live Tracking of the cases, death toll and other information: