International ground handling and cargo company, Swissport South Africa, and South African Airways (SAA) had a working relationship without signing a contract- the commission of Inquiry into State Capture has heard. This is according to evidence given by acting-head of the department for supply chain management at SAA technical, Hendrik Human. He told Justice Raymond Zondo that SAA failed to sign a contract with Swissport for five years despite the company providing services for the airline. He says a contract was later signed in 2016, but the terms of the “new” contract remained the same as that in 2012. Justice Zondo says he found this strange. “Bids were invited in 2011/2012 or whatever time, and the tender was awarded to Swissport. No contract was signed, but they rendered services and they were paid as if there was a contract and then in 2016 a contract was signed without a new tender and it was signed without the basis.” Asked if the contract signed in 2016 was the contract, which was supposed to be signed in 2012, Human responded, “I wish I could say otherwise but yes it is correct.” SAA and its subsidiary, SAA Technical, will continue to dominate the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture hearings on Friday. On Thursday, the commission heard that SAA non-executive director, Yakhe Kwinana allegedly received R100 million from Chicago-based American aviation company AAR to secure a contract with South African Airways Technical. SRS Aviation Director Sibongile Sambo has concluded her testimony at the Commission. The commission heard how some senior executives from SAAT were party to corrupt deals in regards to a supply chain tender contract. Sambo explained how she was shortchanged in the tender deal as more BEE partners were brought in to partner with AAR- an American based airframe maintenance and supply chain company. She told Justice Zondo how Kwinana negotiated with AAR using a third party on her behalf to secure a kickback payment of R100 million to secure the contract. Watch the video below for more on the story:  