The Ahmed Kathrada Foundation and other civil society organisations have called for decisive action against those who committed crimes related to state capture. The Foundation says President Cyril Ramaphosa’s State of the Nation Address (SONA), delivered in Parliament on Thursday evening, did not provide much information on whether those allegedly guilty of the crimes related to state capture will be held accountable. Speaking on Morning Live, Senior Researcher at the University of Stellenbosch, Robyn Foley,  says that those that abused their power have not been held to account. “We heard a lot about the steps that have been taken and the work that’s been done in terms of the NPA, but I think the reality is that those that have abused their power, that have manipulated government processes in order to loot the state have not been held to account. There has been no one placed in jail or any serious repercussions for any of those that have got political power and abuse of power. The call from the Ahmed Kathrada Foundation and the rest of the civil society organisations that were present at the rally is to ask the Executive to do its job.” First Deputy General Secretary of the South African Communist Party, Solly Mapaila, says that it is disconcerting that nobody has been held accountable. He says they’ve been engaging with civil society to take initiatives and take some matters to court based on available evidence. FOR MORE ON FOLEY AND MAPAILA’S INTERVIEW ABOUT STATE CAPTURE ON MORNING LIVE, WATCH VIDEO BELOW:  The Foundation and about 30 other civil society formations gathered at the St George’s Cathedral in Cape Town on Wednesday, voicing their frustration at the lack of convictions despite the view that there is enough evidence already heard by the Zondo Commission and also calling for the  government to “make 2020 the year of the orange overalls.” The gathering was inspired by Archbishop Thabo Makgoba’s Christmas sermon where he said ‘Make 2020 the year of the orange overalls.’