The Gauteng government says it will reassess its policies relating to extramural activities at schools to ensure the safety of learners. This follows the death of Enock Mpianzi at a Grade 8 orientation camp in January. The learner of Parktown Boys’ High School in Johannesburg drowned at the Nyathi Bush and Riverbreak Lodge in Brits in the North West. The 13-year-old disappeared when a makeshift raft, that he and other boys had made, overturned in the Crocodile River. Mpianzi’s funeral service was held at the Kensington Secondary School in Johannesburg. Family, friends of the late Mpianzi packed the Kensington Secondary School hall to pay their last respects. He was the last born in the Mpianzi family and had two brothers. The Gauteng Education Department is yet to release a report detailing the circumstances leading to the boy’s death. His father, Guy Itamba, has described his son as remarkable, saying he had many dreams. “I stand here today with a broken heart. The loss of a child is something I could never prepare for. Enock was a remarkable child. Even in death he left a mark. He had so many dreams and plans for the future, but God decided otherwise. Enock, my son, I love you with all my heart. I am profoundly proud to have been your father. I will never let you down. RIP my son.”  Friends of the deceased paid tribute to him at the emotional funeral service. They say they will always remember him as a loving person. “I have known him for five years. Never again I have met someone like him; generous, optimistic and very smart in terms of clothing and school. He was so wonderful to think of, but so hard to live without. I cried endlessly when you died. I promised I won’t forget the smile you gave me when you were alive. I don’t know why you had to go. I never got to say good bye, but until we meet again; rest in peace Enock. I’m going to be saying a verse about friendship and life. All and incense make the heart rejoice, so does sweet friendship spring from the censorial council. I would like to pay my condolences to the family; he was a very close friend of mine.”  Addressing mourners, the EFF’s national spokesperson, Mbuyiseni Ndlozi, highlighted various struggles that learners and the educational system faced. “They can’t keep schools in SA; proper schooling facilities, school books arrive late, schools in the townships are degenerating. So, that is the pain of losing a child because of a society that does not care for its children. Enock may have been young; his story has caused the necessary storm in SA that we’ve got to remember all the children in boys schools in which initiation cultures are abusive and negligent. His death and story have arisen and made the country debate all those conditions of general neglect.” Gauteng Community Safety MEC, Faith Mazibuko, says the provincial government will ensure that the family gets answers. “We shall make sure that the family gets to know the truth as that will be uncovered by the investigations that are still under way. We will also use the findings to ensure that gaps and lapses that may occur in the safety of young people in our care are immediately addressed. Through the death of Enock, the department will make sure that it re-looks at policies of extramural activities at our schools.” Mpianzi was laid to rest at Wespark cemetery, north of Johannesburg FOR MORE, WATCH VIDEOS BELOW:  