Hopes the coronavirus would be contained to China vanished on Friday as infections spread rapidly around the world, countries started stockpiling medical equipment and investors took flight in expectation of a global recession. Share prices were on track for the worst week since the global financial crisis in 2008 as virus-related disruptions to international travel and supply chains fuelled fears of recession in the United States and the Euro zone. The US stock market fell into correction territory with the benchmark S&P 500 index down more than 4% on Thursday, extending a market rout that has now sliced more than 10% off o fits closing peak on February 19. “Markets are voting and saying they think the US is on its way to recession,” said Chris Rupkey, chief economist at MUFG in New York. “And frankly at this stage after the coronavirus-related slowdown in travel plans that has busted the global supply chain apart, it will be a miracle if we avoid a recession.” Mainland China – where the virus originated late last year -reported 327 new cases on Friday, the lowest since January 23. But with new infections reported around the world now surpassing those in China, World Health Organization (WHO) Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said even rich nations should prepare. “No country should assume it won’t get cases, that would bea fatal mistake, quite literally,” Tedros said, pointing to Italy, where 17 people have died in Europe’s worst outbreak.
A Reuters tally showed almost 10 countries reported their first virus cases in past 24 hours. Medical Stockpiling In addition to stockpiling medical supplies, governments ordered schools shut and canceled big gatherings, including sports events, to try to halt the spread of the flu-like disease known as COVID-19. US President Donald Trump’s administration was considering invoking special powers to rapidly expand US production of protective gear, two officials told Reuters. In Europe, France’s number of reported cases doubled, Germany warned of an impending epidemic and Greece, a gateway for refugees from the Middle East, announced tighter border controls. “We have a crisis before us. An epidemic is on its way,”French President Emmanuel Macron said. The number of people who tested positive for the illness in Italy increased by more than 200 to 650. Germany has about 27 cases, France around 18 and Spain 15. Tedros told reporters in Geneva that Iran, Italy and South Korea were at a “decisive point” in their efforts to prevent a wider outbreak. US investment bank BofA cut its world growth forecast to the lowest level since the peak of the financial crisis, and ratings agency Moody’s said a coronavirus pandemic would trigger global and US recessions in the first half of the year. Known Unknowns There is particular concern over a case in Japan in which a woman tested positive for the virus for a second time. Second positive tests have also been reported in China and could imply contracting the disease does not confer immunity. Scientists warned that much remains unknown about the virus,including how long it can survive on surfaces. Hong Kong quarantined a pet dog of a coronavirus patient after it showed “weak positive” results for the virus, even though it did not have any symptoms. Further tests would be conducted to confirm if the dog had been infected. US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention(CDC) director Robert Redfield said the agency was evaluating how long coronavirus could be infectious on surfaces. “On copper and steel its pretty typical, it’s pretty much about 2 hours,” Redfield told a House of Representatives hearing. “But I will say on other surfaces – cardboard or plastic – it’s longer, and so we are looking at this.” He said infections contracted from surfaces rather than through the air could have contributed to the outbreak on theDiamond Princess cruise ship in Japan, where about 700passengers and crew caught the disease.    