Political analyst Ralph Mathekga says the hero’s welcome that former president Jacob Zuma received from some senior African National Congress (ANC) members is confirmation of deep divisions in the governing party. Zuma was in Cuba apparently to receive medical treatment. Some senior party members including ANC Free State chairperson Sam Mashinini and MP Joe Mswanganyi have vowed to support Zuma until his last day in court. However, Mathekga has warned that those who are behind Zuma are well aware that they could also be in court soon. He says, “So there is always this idea that the Secretary General of the ANC is implicated in impropriety and his prosecution is imminent. There are always these reports. You can’t just say it’s a rumour. So certainly those that believe that there is a persecution of President Zuma certainly believe that there is same political persecution of Ace Magashule, Mosebenzi Zwane, Bongani Bongo, those are traditional allies that find themselves in a position where they are going to have to take a political stance in relation to certain criminal matters that might get underway in the country.” In this video below, the Radical Economic Champions National Chairperson, Nkosentsha Shezi says he is happy with the people that turned out. Zuma says he is prepared to go to jail Former President Jacob Zuma says he would not lie about being ill if he was not. Speaking to supporters who welcomed him back at the OR Tambo International on Saturday after his return from Cuba where he received medical treatment, Zuma said he was prepared to go to jail if he was convicted of a crime. “I am not scared of prison. When I am wanted in court I go. Even during the the time the white people were in charge, I went. They imprisoned me for 10 years and I came out. Even now, if this government of ours can arrest me and find me guilty, I will go to prison,” says Zuma. In the video below, former President Jacob Zuma reiterates that he is not afraid to go to jail: High Court issued a stayed warrant for his arrest Earlier in February, the Pietermaritzburg High Court issued a stayed warrant for his arrest after he did not pitch for his court appearance. The warrant of arrest will become effective if he fails to turn up for his next court appearance on May 6. Zuma explained to the crowd that his dark sunglasses were a necessity due to his ongoing treatment. He said those who wanted him to appear in court or anywhere else will have to wait until he is fit as his life is important and therefore he must seek healing. Zuma dismissed the idea that he was afraid of appearing in court, saying he was neither afraid to appear on the long-standing charges of fraud and corruption linked to the 1990s arms deal nor afraid to go to jail if it so happens. In the video below, SABC Reporter, Ayanda Mhlongo that there was an argument between the state and the defence lawyer:  Zuma is too old for prison Economic Freedom Fighters leader Julius Malema said while it was important for Zuma to face charges brought against him, it would not make sense to send him to prison even though he was guilty, as he was too old for prison. “Jail time for an old person like that is not suitable. What kind of society have we become to jail such old people?” Additional reporting by Busi Chimombe