Students at the University of Fort Hare (UFH) in the Eastern Cape are still shocked and traumatised following the fatal stabbing of a male student. The victim was allegedly stabbed by a female student in full view of other students. It is alleged that an argument ensued between the two in the early hours of Saturday morning, following a night of drinking. The 24-year-old student was rushed to hospital where he succumbed to his stab wounds. Yonela Boli, an MSC Geology student, was stabbed at Fort Hare’s residence allegedly by his girlfriend. It is alleged that this was not the first stabbing incident by the alleged perpetrator towards the victim. A witness says he only realised when the victim fell to the ground that he had a stab wound before trying to assist him and ultimately rushing him to hospital.  The witness, who did not wish to be identified, says, “When we came back around two in the morning to come and sleep. As we were trying to open our doors we were chatting. He tried knocking at the door but she did not open. Then I was about to enter into my room, the girl opened the door and slapped Boli. Boli asked what was going on then the girl reached for the knife and missed his chest area then when the guy ran towards my room he fell on the ground.” Police spokesperson Brigadier Thembinkosi Kinana says they are investigating a case of murder, “Yesterday we received reports of a stabbing that took place at the University of Fort Hare. The report suggests that the two students were believed to have been friends, they had an argument which resulted in the stabbing and the one that was stabbed was rushed to hospital, that is where he succumbed to injuries, we are investigating the circumstances that surrounded this incident.”  The institution has called on students to exercise tolerance when interacting with other students. #MenBreakTheSilence… This is Yonela Boli, a Fort Hare University Masters student who was stabbed and died in hospital by his girlfriend. This happened earlier yesterday in the University Premises. pic.twitter.com/9GR6AFLztI — Charlotte Lukhele (@CharlotteLukhe1) February 9, 2020  