Two Gauteng Grade 8 learners who had been reported missing have been re-united with their families. Fourteen-year-old Lindokuhle Masuku from Queens High School was allegedly kidnapped while waiting at the school gate on Monday. On the same day, 15-year-old Kate Spies from Lantern School for learners with special needs in Roodepoort west of Johannesburg was also reported missing. Both learners were found on Tuesday. Masuku was found at Maponya Mall in Soweto two days after he was reported missing. The Gauteng Education Department says his alleged kidnappers had demanded a R5 million ransom for his release. Gauteng police’s Mavela Masondo says, “We have assigned our psychologists and social workers who will take him through counselling. We will be obtaining a statement from him as to what transpired until yesterday (Wednesday) when he was found.” He says Kate Spies was found by in Roodepoort by fellow learners. “Fellow learners saw her roaming the streets in Roodeport. They called the principal and principal called family and the police.” Police will also be taking a statement from her on Thursday. Department relieved that both learners found The Gauteng Education Department has urged schools to be vigilant and ensure that the safety of learners is not compromised. The department’s Steve Mabona says, “We are relieved that both learners were found and call upon members of the school community to always be vigilant, make sure that the safety of our learners is not compromised.” In the video below, President Cyril Ramaphosa says that South Africa is failing its children. Meanwhile in Germiston, Gauteng police are still searching for suspects relating to the murder of a 15-year-old girl in Elsburg, east of Johannesburg . The Grade 9 learner from Graceland Education Centre reportedly went missing before her body was found in January in an open veld between Brug Street and the N17 in Elsburg. Laticia Jansen’s body was found stabbed, raped and burnt. In the video below, SABC reporter Mahlako Komane tells more about the incident: 