Eskom says it will stop rotational load shedding at 5 o’clock on Saturday afternoon. It says this is due to an improved generation system performance, which has given it room to provide some relief to customers during the night. The power utility says it will resume implementing rotational load shedding at 8 o’clock on Sunday morning. This is because two generation units successfully returned to service earlier than expected on Saurday morning and the pumped-storage schemes recovered adequately, setting Eskom on a good course to full recovery by Monday morning.  Mineral Resources and Energy Minister Gwede Mantashe announced earlier this in February that the country’s power utility Eskom faced two years of load shedding. This in contrast to Eskom CEO Andre de Ruyter saying that load shedding can be expected for the next 18 months as it catches up on maintenance. Click below to watch a conversation with Eskom CEO Andre de Ruyter:   Loading… (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); Speaking on the second day of the debate on the State of the Nation Address (SONA) in Parliament, Mantashe said the unreliable electricity supplier is the biggest threat in the economic growth of the country. “Eskom demands above 31 000 megawatts. According to the power utility, we face at least two years minimum of potential load shedding.” “The President mentioned the following measures; we will implement to address energy shortage; procurement of emergency power; the easing of requirements and process for generation for all use and enabling municipalities in good financial standing to buy their own power.” Watch the debate on the President’s State of the Nation Address focusing on the power crisis: Below is a video by Eskom explaining load shedding:  