The forensic report into the death of the Parktown Boys’ High pupil Enock Mpianzi is expected to be released on Thursday. Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi received the report last weekend and will share the findings with the media and the public in Parktown, Johannesburg. It’s expected to shed light on the circumstances surrounding the death of the 13-year-old learner.  The Grade 8 learner died after a makeshift raft he and his fellow pupils built capsized in the Crocodile River at the Nyathi Bush and River Break Lodge in the North West over a month ago. The investigation looked into aspects such as the learner roll call, learner safety and care as well as allegations that Mpianzi was not issued with a life jacket during the water activity. Lesufi says preliminary findings suggest that there was wrongdoing on the part of those that had been given the mandate to take care of the children. The MEC appointed a private firm to investigate the incident after public outrage over Mpianzi’s death last month. Outrage over Mpianzi’s death Parktown Boys High School principal has since been suspended following Mpianzi’s death. Lesufi revealed that the school did not comply with the department’s policy which requires schools to apply for authorisation from the district three months before the proposed trip, and the school only applied in November for the January trip. Training organisation Adventure Standards Africa raised concerns around safety procedures for school learners who go on adventure trips, adding that consent agreements do not hold weight if there’s negligence while facilitating activities. Watch as angry and concerned parents of other learners demanding clarity and answers from the department and the school:  A family reeling “The loss of a child is something I could never prepare for.” In a moving and emotional tribute during his funeral, Enock’s father Guy Intamba described his son as a remarkable child who had many dreams for his future, adding that he was proud to be his father. Mpianzi’s family has since reiterated the call for justice to be served. Watch as Mpianzi’s father pays tribute to his son:  -Additional reporting by SABC Digital News. 