The Eastern Cape government’s plans are afoot to stimulate the economy and create jobs in the province. This has been brought to the fore as Premier Oscar Mabuyane delivered his second State of the Province Address on Tuesday. He dedicated the next four years as an era of job creation, boosting the economy and socio-economic development. Over R1 billion has been set aside to ignite economic activities while R41 billion will be used for infrastructure development. Premier Mabuyane’s State of the Province Address was marred by unpleasant scenes when the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) refused to leave the Raymond Mhlaba Chamber for not wearing proper regalia. Mabuyane’s speech also focussed on assisting farmers who are hard hit by drought. He has used the platform to denounce all forms of corruption in the three spheres of government. Mabuyane promised to refurbish routes that drive the economy of the province. “Through Sanral, the national Department of Transport will inject R11.9 billion in the next two years with R5.4 billion targeted projects for Kirkwood, Addo, PE to East London from Aliwal North to Lady Grey and Barkly East. This year we will also see the re-establishment of site R61 between Baziya and Mthatha airport.” Video: the proceedings were not without drama as SABC News’ Yanga Funani reports   However, opposition parties are not impressed, describing the Premier’s address as vague, baseless and lacking detail, while EFF MPLs were ejected for being inappropriately dressed. The United Democratic Movement’s Mncedisi Falteni says challenges in Small, Medium and Micro Enterprises (SMMEs) still remain. “What I can say is that the premier promised us nothing. He did not provide a plan, like last year,  he promised that he is going to fix problems SMMEs are facing in terms of the payment within 30 days and our SMMEs are not being paid.”  Democratic Alliance’s Nqaba Banga says, “After being in office for about eight months he would have had time to think things through, coming from that he would admit that by and large, the people of the Eastern Cape are in the periphery of economic development.” Eradicating mud schools through building 138 schools between now and 2024 is also on the cards. On agriculture, 27 livestock facilities, five Agri-hubs and 25 agro processing facilities will be produced.