Six more learners from the Lofentse Girls High School in Soweto have been rushed to hospital for alleged food poisoning. Teachers at the school comforted the ailing patients, before they were transported to hospital. On Thursday, nearly 40 learners were vomitting, having complained of stomach cramps after eating scones. Parents sounded the alarm on possible food poisining after their kids bought the scones, allegedly, from a fellow learner. Learning and teaching was disrupted, when parents went to school to seek answers. Gauteng police spokesperson, Kay Makhubele, says a sample of the scones in question has been taken for analysis to establish what could have caused the learners to fall ill. In the video below, SABC News confirmed that authorities had disputed earlier reports of fatalities.  Call for stricter regulations of food sales at schools Gauteng Community Safety MEC, Faith Mazibuko, last weekend called on the Department of Education to register informal traders at schools. This after a Soweto informal trader sold dagga-infused muffins called “space cookies” to 16 learners at the Kusasalethu High School. They were subsequently rushed to hospital. Mazibuko says the department and parents need to know what is being sold to learners. “We wish to call upon MEC of Education that they must start registering all people that are selling at the schools. Because once you know who is selling and who is selling what, you would be able to avert such things. A 21-year-old has been arrested. I suspect she overdosed this time because she says they are in demand. We need parents also to come on board. You must know what your children are eating at school. We have been fighting drugs that have been sold through the fences, now it’s obvious they are bringing them straight into the schools using some of the learners,” says Mazibuko. Gauteng Education spokesperson Steve Mabona says the suspended learners, who have been released into their parents’ custody, are to face a disciplinary hearing. “The two learners that were suspected to have sold the cakes were then apprehended by the police but then released because of them being minors. We also understand that the woman, who owns the cake business, was also arrested and detained at Dobsonville. The two boy learners were suspended with immediate effect. They will be appearing on the 24 February at their disciplinary process,” says Mabona.