Young Democratic Alliance(DA) members have thrown their weight behind Mbali Ntuli‘s bid for the party’s top job. Hundreds of DA supporters packed the Rovers clubhouse in Durban at a meeting hosted by Ntuli who is also a member of the KwaZulu-Natal legislature. The DA is due to hold its elective conference next year.  Remona McKenzie is among the young people who attended the gathering who believes Ntuli is capable of leading the party. “I believe she can take anybody forward as a leader especially our people in rural areas where she has been. Our rural people feel neglected and I have also been helping her as well.”  John Steehuisen is currently the DA’s interim leader after having been elected into the position in November 2019. The party’s Gauteng Provincial Leader, John Moodey, will also battle for the position. The DA’s Western Cape Provincial Leader Bonginkosi Madikizela confirmed that he will not be contesting for the position. These are the DA’s candidates for National Leader:  Loading… (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); Economic policy On Friday, the party launched its economic policy that it says is based on the UN Sustainable Development Goals ahead of the party’s policy conference in April. The DA decried the race-based economic policies of the ANC – including Black Economic Empowerment – saying they have failed to lift the majority of people out of poverty. At a media briefing in Cape Town, the party’s head of policy, Gwen Ngwenya, said the DA’s alternatives have a number of advantages over the ANC’s BEE scorecard. “Essentially what BEE does, it embodies a system of trickle-down redress. Now trickled down redress is the idea that if you transfer assets positions or contracts from one elite to another, this will lead to broad-based prosperity. This model has clearly not worked. What we do need to do however is to focus on the actual drivers of inequality of opportunity on the ground. In other words, the very material things that keep the average South African excluded from the economy and keeps them poor and without opportunity.”