Deputy Minister of Police, Cassel Mathale has joined other groups including political parties and the Desmond and Leah Tutu Legacy Foundation in condemning FW De Klerk’s remarks on apartheid. In an interview with the SABC News, De Klerk said he did not “fully” agree with the United Nations’ declaration of apartheid as a crime against humanity. Mathale says, “We will not allow individuals or institutions to distort history. I want to reaffirm here, in Alexandra today, that that resolution was a resolution of the United Nations that was arrived at democratically…” Mathale says [FW De Klerk] foundation must retract that statement.  In the ensuing weeks, De Klerk has had backlash for his comment, with social media kicking up a storm calling he be stripped of his Nobel Peace Prize. During SONA, Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) left the chambers following their demand that the former National Party leader be removed from the proceedings. The party has said that it will write to the Nobel Peace Committee requesting it to withdraw the Nobel Prize which was awarded to De Klerk in 1993. ‘Apology’ Meanwhile, the Tolerance Education Awareness Movement (Team) says the FW De Klerk Foundation’s response to the statement made by the former President on apartheid is making matters worse. FW De Klerk Foundations read, “Deplorable as it is, we cannot, from a legal point of view, accept that apartheid can in this manner be made a crime against humanity. Crimes against humanity are so grave in nature that they must be meticulously elaborated and strictly construed under existing international law…” Team founder Themba Zweni says, “The FW De Klerk’s foundation further compounded and actually they deepen the crisis – that’s why in a tweet that we released we said their explanation is actually disappointing at the least and we’re saying disgusting at the most.” Earlier lawyer and social activist, advocate Tembeka Ngcukaitobi supported the call from the Council of Churches, that De Klerk and his Foundation apologise for their defences of apartheid. Ngcukaitobi said from a legal perspective, apartheid was indeed classified as a crime against humanity. WATCH: ANC slams De Klerk over apartheid comments   5 QUOTES ON DE KLERK’S UTTERANCES ON APARTHEID by SABC Digital News   