The ANC in KwaZulu-Natal has joined its party members in the Free State in expressing its dismay about the warrant of arrest issued for former President Jacob Zuma. The warrant was issued on Tuesday by the High Court in Pietermaritzburg after Zuma failed to appear on corruption charges relating to the 1990s Arms Deal. The arrest was stayed until his next court appearance on 6 May. Zuma’s lawyers presented a sick note, which the court did not accept, citing discrepancies. ANC KZN Provincial Secretary Mdumiseni Ntuli says the court’s decision was irrational and inconsiderate to the health of the former president. “It created an impression in society that there an agenda lying somewhere; there is an agenda to persecute the former president. We don’t need that. We don’t need a legal system whose credibility will be questioned on the basis of such issues that were taking place yesterday in court. I hope on the 6th of May there will be clarity around that matter. We think there is an element of irrationality on the part of the court to think that after so many years, having attended a court case, he is now having the reasons not to attend the court, other than the fact that he is not well. You know, the former president, if he was well and in good shape he would not have missed the January 8th of our movement, in Kimberly and here in the lower south coast.” Free State ANC Youth League Spokesperson Sello Pietersen says they will defend Zuma to the bitter end. “In fact, our view is that the next appearance, we are going to mobilise many young doctors to provide as many medical certificates as possible so that the former president must not go to that thing. And they will be the first ones to tell them where he is and they will find us here waiting for them. What will happen there, only history will be able to tell.” Meanwhile, the ANC in the Free State has warned that the issuing of the warrant of arrest could threaten the stability of the country. The party’s provincial secretary Paseka Nompondo says the High Court ruling was wrong and unfortunate and has warned the judiciary to act with caution. “The courts of our country, I think they must learn that the stability of our country is very important to everybody and it is important that the decisions they make do not generate and start something in the present and the future that cannot be controlled. You see,  former President Zuma has never refused to go to court. And why would people not believe that he is sick? Why would they question the medical certificate?” 