The state has called its first witness, Andisiwe Dike to the stand with the resumption of the trial of Pastor Timothy Omotoso and his two co-accused in the Port Elizabeth High Court on Monday. Dike gave chilling details of how she was sexually abused by the controversial pastor, Timothy Omotoso, in his church house in Durban. She is the first witness to take the stand as the trial resumes at the Port Elizabeth High Court on Monday. Omotoso and his two co-accused Lusanda Sulani and Zukiswa Sitho, face 63 main and 34 alternative charges ranging from sexual assault, human trafficking and rape. The 30-year-old witness detailed three events where she felt unsafe in the hands of what she saw as a ‘man of God’. Video: SABC’s Jayed-Leigh Paulse was in court…  Dike has described her first one-on-one encounter with Omotoso as scary, shocking and disgusting. She detailed a number of events, where she was shocked by Omotoso’s behaviour, with the worst being when Omotoso sent for her to be called to his bedroom one evening. Dike, who was composed throughout her testimony, told the court that when she went into Omotoso’s room, he told her to lock. She says she went inside the semi-dark room and knelt, which was a regular sign of respect in the house. Dike says this wasn’t long after she had moved into the church house, and was still trying to figure things out. Dike alleges that Omotoso looked at her and pat the spot next to him in his bed. Dike alleges that they exchanged a short conversation before Omotoso pushed her to her back, and climbed on top of her.  Dike told the court that the following day, Omotoso sent for her to be called again, saying he needed a foot massage. Dike alleges that during her second encounter with Omotoso, he asked her when she’d be ready for him, to which she responded “anytime”. The witness further alleges that after the first few incidents, she stopped counting as it became a regular occurrence. Dike said that out of approximately 28 girls who lived in the house, only two went to school. She says these were very young girls, as she was amongst the oldest. Omotoso and two co-accused are facing a total of 97 charges between them, including trafficking for sexual purposes, rape, and racketeering. 