United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has urged people around the world to follow the advice of the World Health Organisation and avoid stigma and discrimination in the fight against the coronavirus. This as the Chinese Foreign Ministry earlier accused the United States of stirring up panic in its response to the outbreak. It follows a decision by the State Department to advise citizens against travel to China while blocking foreigners who recently visited China from entering the United States. The WHO earlier confirmed that over 17 000 cases had been confirmed with 362 deaths recorded. Guterres took to Twitter to warn against stigma and discrimination while calling for people to stand together in solidarity and compassion in combatting the spread of the virus. His spokesperson Stephane Dujarric says, “He’s been in touch with Dr Tedros. Again this is a medical, scientific issue in which WHO is the natural leader within the UN system so we fully support them. One message I think is important, the fight against the coronavirus should not lead to any prejudice and the stigmatization of groups of people or healthcare workers, their human rights need to be respected.” The United States declared coronavirus a national public health emergency following the WHO’s decision to declare it a Public Health Emergency of International concern, joining several countries including Singapore, Australia and New Zealand in blocking entry to foreigners who have recently been to China. A growing list of airlines have also suspended flight to mainland China US Secretary of Health and Human Services Alex Azar says, “The President (Trump) has signed a presidential proclamation using his authority pursuant to section 2:12 F of the Immigration and Nationality Act temporarily suspending the entry into the United States of foreign nationals who pose a risk of transmitting the 2019 novel coronavirus. As a result, foreign nationals, other than immediate family of US citizens and permanent residents who have traveled in China within the last 14 days will be denied entry into the United States for this time.” A written statement from China’s foreign ministry accused some countries, particularly the United States, of overreacting against the advice of the WHO, while lamenting Washington’s lack of substantial assistance to Beijing’s efforts. WHO Director-General Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus says, “There is no reason for measures that unnecessarily interfere with international travel and trade. We call on all countries to implement decisions that are evidence-based and consistent. WHO stands ready to provide advice to any country that’s considering which measures to take.” 151 cases have been confirmed in 23 countries outside of China, including 11 cases in the United States with three possible cases under investigation in New York City. Only one death outside of China has been confirmed in the Philippines.   