The Education Department in Limpopo says it is in the process of verifying the overall number of schools that are currently closed due to COVID-19 infections. The School Governing Body Associations and learners organisation, Cosas, report that schools in areas such as Zebediela, Polokwane, Malamulele and Thabazimbi amongst others are currently undergoing fumigation. The Education Department in the province has not yet released updated figures of schools that are temporarily closed. This week alone, School Governing Bodies, educator unions and Cosas say a school at Malamulele, two in Polokwane, four at Zebediela and one in Thabazimbi, are currently closed for fumigation. Provincial Secretary of Cosas, Skhalo Mahladisa, says the Education Department’s plan for schools is not working. “We have schools such as Maks Semenya High in ZB, Moshodo Primary School, Sethotho Primary School, Mabolepu High School – all in ZB, which were closed due to a confirmed case. But it seems that the department does not have a plan in place to can deal decisively with these things. We told them before that if a school reports a confirmed case that particular school should be closed for fumigation.” Spokesperson of the department, Tidimalo Chuene says the number of learners and teachers who tested positive is increasing. Chuene says they are still consolidating figures of schools that are currently undergoing fumigation. “By last week, when we presented to the Provincial Command Council, we were at 30 confirmed cases involving 22 educators, 7 learners and one non-education staff. Today, we are presenting again to the Provincial Command Council. The figures are still being reconciled and this will be made public in due course.” MEC Boshielo @PollyBoshielo interacting with learners at Shayandima Secondary during her visit to monitor the return of grade 11 learners to school. The school has received all the learners and they are happy to be back at school. pic.twitter.com/wOtOu6KRoU — LimpopoEducation (@edu_limp) July 7, 2020  Meanwhile, parents have voiced concerns over escalating cases at schools. “I’m feeling very uneasy about it and on the other hand, the curriculum is also important. But I feel that their lives are more important than the school calendar. So honestly, I don’t want them to go to school, but as a parent also thinking the kids are getting behind with their school work … like, we are just confused. It is a matter of as a parent putting your foot down and apparently, we can register with the department to put them on homeschooling.” The Education Department will make a presentation on the effects of COVID-19 at schools to the Provincial Command Council on Thursday.