The African National Congress (ANC) says the best tribute members can pay to North West Cooperative Governance, Human Settlements and Traditional Affairs MEC Gordon Kegakilwe is to intensify the war on COVID-19 by encouraging all South Africans to adhere to health safety protocols. Kegakilwe died in hospital on Monday afternoon after testing positive for the coronavirus last week. In a statement, the ANC paid homage to Kegakilwe, describing him as a hardworking servant of the people who was selflessly committed to the notion of building a better life for all. “We convey our heartfelt condolences to Kegakilwe’s family, the entire membership of the ANC and the people of the North West. May his soul Rest in Peace.” The late MEC previously served the governing party in various capacities, including as the North West Provincial Deputy Secretary and as Regional Chairperson of Dr Ruth Segomotsi Mompati. Kegakilwe was currently serving in the Interim Provincial Committee established by the National Executive Committee to rebuild ANC structures in the North West. #COSATU conveys its heartfelt condolences to the family, relatives, colleagues and comrades of MEC #GordonKegakilwe, who is no more. May his soul Rest In Peace @COVID_19_ZA @motswedingfm @_cosatu @ParliamentofRSA — @COSATU Today (@_cosatu) July 7, 2020  Gordon Kegakilwe Our Brother, Comrade and Colleague  Robala ka Kagiso Kgaitsedi  Boora Kegakilwe, Mosadi le Bana gomotsegang  #RIPGordonKegakilwe #COVID19SouthAfrica #WashYourHands #WearAMaskPlease Please take care fellows  pic.twitter.com/XBplUlvkH9 — Desbo Mohono (@DesboMohono) July 6, 2020  RIP comrade Gordon “Legordy” Kegakilwe. Your vision remains ours and shall be pursued until the end.. Robala Namane ya Tholo @NWPGOV @MyANC_Bophirima — PEEKAY Snr (@concobe) July 6, 2020  Dlamini-Zuma expresses shock Earlier, the Minister of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (CoGTA), Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, expressed shock over Kegakilwe’s passing. Dlamini-Zuma says Kegakilwe understood the importance of the portfolio and carried out his responsibilities with dignity, adding that they had established a good working relationship in this past year that they have worked together. Below is the Minister’s statement on Kegakilwe: 