The Western Cape Disaster Management has warned that the upcoming cold front could bring forth the biggest storm that the province has endured in recent times. This follows a warning by the South African Weather Services of an intense cold front expected to make landfall in the province on Monday. Disaster Management spokesperson, James Styan has urged people to limit travel where possible and exercise extreme caution. “It’s raining in some parts on the WC and its moving through the province. The weather service says this is one of the biggest storms that we will see this year. It is a low lying areas that are the most affected – places where communities have settled on wetlands, marshlands. Emergency services are aware and would respond as quickly as possible,” says Styan. A series of cold fronts have wreaked havoc to large parts of the region since Thursday. Disaster Management has warned of an increased risk of flooding and continued gale force winds. Meanwhile, Gauteng residents are warned to brace themselves for another cold front expected to hit the province on Tuesday. Extremely cold temperatures are expected to reach the Eastern Cape on Monday afternoon from the Western Cape, accompanied by rainfall. “There is a cold front that is affecting the Western Cape. So the front is going to move through and reach areas like Eastern Cape this afternoon. Behind it we are expecting the cold conditions with rain especially along the south west and south coast. And then by tomorrow this system is going to affect Gauteng but the snow will be just confined to the Western and Eastern province,” says Bransby Bulo, SA Weather Service forecaster. Storm warning Alert 
The heavy downpours predicted for this cold front will increase the risk of flooding. Gale force winds are once again forecast, starting this evening until Monday. For emergencies, please call 021 480 7700 from a cellphone or 107 from a landline.#CTNews pic.twitter.com/Y6FA9hXQPO — City of Cape Town (@CityofCT) July 12, 2020  In this video, several Cape Town informal settlements experience flooding 