Labour Minister Thulas Nxesi is the latest high ranking politician to test positive for the coronavirus. The Presidency confirmed this on Twitter, saying that Nxesi received his test results on Friday. The Minister of Employment and Labour, Mr Thembelani Thulas Nxesi (MP) has tested positive for Covid-19. The Minister received his results earlier today, 17 July 2020. https://t.co/fLJtTONpR2 — Presidency | South Africa  (@PresidencyZA) July 17, 2020  He’s the fifth member of the executive to test positive. “This was the Minister’s 4th round of tests to be conducted since the outbreak of the virus, and the first to return positive. Minister Nxesi is in self-isolation and will continue to work from home. All members of the Office of the Minister, who have come in contact with him, will also undergo testing,” Minister in the Presidency, Jackson Mthembu said in a statement. Earlier this week, Mthembu announced that Energy Minister Gwede Mantashe and his wife had tested positive. Deputy Social Development Minister Hendrietta Bogopane Zulu has also been confirmed as having the virus. Defence Minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula has recovered from virus. Deputy Justice Minister Nkosi Phathekile Holomisa has also recovered. Mthembu has extended his condolences to all those who have lost loved ones to COVID-19 and has urged people to continue washing hands and wearing masks. “Let us all play our part by giving earnest support to those who are fighting this virus. In protecting ourselves, our families and communities, let us continue to observe all health protocols and regularly wash our hands properly, wear our masks and practice physical distancing. Together, we can beat the coronavirus,” he said. The World Health Organisation (WHO) data shows that South Africa now registers the most COVID-19 related deaths on the continent, in addition to topping the list of confirmed infections. In total, African countries have registered over 663 000 confirmed coronavirus cases, with more than 343 000 recoveries and 14 000 COVID-19 related deaths. Globally, as the number of infections nears 14 million, South Africa ranks sixth in terms of overall infections surpassing the UK, Spain, Chile and Mexico, some of the worst affected nations. However, in terms of the global death toll, South Africa ranks much lower than other nations.