The 17-year-old accused in the rape and murder case of 11-year-old Amanda Mthembu has abandoned his bail application at the Mtunzini Magistrate Court, on KwaZulu-Natal’s north coast. The accused informed the court that he feared for his life because the community has made it clear that he’s not wanted in the area. In the video below, Amanda Mthembu’s alleged killer appears in court:  Scores of angry residents of Dokodweni once again protested outside court. They were calling on the court to deny the 17-year-old alleged murderer and rapist bail. Some carried placards with messages calling for perpetrators to stop gender-based violence. The case was held in camera since the accused is a minor. His decision to abandon his bail application was welcomed by the protesters. A member of the community, Mava Ntombela, says they are happy that the accused will remain behind bars. “We came in our numbers as the community to add our voices that we don’t want this accused in our community. We are extremely happy since the accused himself has abandoned bail. We cannot have people like him in our community who are accused of such crimes of raping and killing children.” During his first appearance in June, the court heard that the accused has two other pending rape cases. The naked body of 11-year-old Mthembu was found in June at a sugarcane plantation by residents a week after she went missing. In the video below, the 17-year-old suspect appears in court on murder charges.  Community leader Bonga Mthiyane says he believes that if government could involve traditional leaders in fighting crime, maybe GVB could end. “I would like to thank Dokodweni community for the support they have shown to the victim’s family. I urge all leaders to come together so we can fight this gender-based violence in our communities. I think now is the time for our government to give back the powers of traditional leaders, some cases need our traditional leaders intervention to prosecute them; we can work with the judiciary as well.” The case will be back in court on the 28 August.