Eskom will resume stage 2 load shedding at 8am on Sunday morning. This as the power utility continues to struggle with a severely constrained generation system. It says that it expects load shedding to continue into the week because of the breakdown of generation units and the increase in the demand for electricity due to the cold weather. #POWERALERT 1 Stage 2 loadshedding to continue until 22:00, then resume at 08:00 tomorrow.@News24 @eNCA pic.twitter.com/IQkObJWqA5 — Eskom Hld SOC Ltd (@Eskom_SA) July 11, 2020  SA faces a week of  loadshedding South Africans can brace themselves for another week of load shedding after Eskom announced that its generation system is still severely constrained. Spokesperson Sikonathi Mantshantsha says the implementation of load shedding on Sunday is necessary to replenish emergency generation reserves to prepare better for the coming week. On Friday, Eskom implemented load shedding for the first time since the start of the lockdown due to an increase in plant breakdowns. Mantshantsha says although teams have successfully returned to service three generation units at the Arnot, Duvha and Kendal power stations on Saturday, the demand for electricity has risen significantly due to the cold weather. In the video below, Eskom implements stage 2 load shedding:  ‘Load shedding necessary’ Mantshantsha says it is still necessary to load shed. “Even though some of the units are expected back in service tonight [Saturday], continuing with load shedding tomorrow is necessary in order to replenish the emergency generation reserves to better prepare for the coming week. Due to the much colder weather, the demand for electricity has risen significantly. Three of the six-generation units contributing to the earlier breakdown have been successfully returned to service. We still have breakdowns at Arnot, Kendal, Tutuka and the Majuba power stations.” The video below is  of Energy Expert and MD at EE Publishers, Chris Yellan speaking about the load shedding:   