The family of the late struggle icon and politician Harry Gwala says the African National Congress (ANC) has shifted from the values espoused by Gwala. Gwala is a recipient of the Isithwalandwe medal and he served two sentences in Robben Island for his role against apartheid before he died of a heart attack in 1995. The ANC in KwaZulu-Natal held a wreath-laying ceremony at his grave in KwaSwayimane, outside Pietermaritzburg, to celebrate his centenary birthday. Affectionately known by his comrades as the ‘Lion of the Midlands’ for his fearless character, Gwala, a teacher by profession, took part in various underground operations of uMkhonto weSizwe. His anti-apartheid activities landed him in Robben Island twice – first in 1964 and again in 1975 under the Terrorism Act. After the unbanning of the ANC in 1990 and during the Codesa negotiations, Gwala served as a National Executive member. He was awarded the Isithwalandwe award in 1992 for his contribution to dismantling apartheid. 2020 – the year that Gwala would’ve turned 100 – the family wants the ANC to use the milestone for deep introspection. His daughter, Lindiwe Gwala-Gwambi says that as a family they are happy that Gwala is being recognised and also that they want the ANC to preserve his memory by rooting out corruption and factionalism. The ANC in KZN says the current party leadership should emulate Gwala’s frank leadership style. This as the party is facing numerous allegations of fraud and growing factionalism. ANC Provincial Secretary Mdumiseni Ntuli says that ANC members must learn to call each other out when out of place. @MYANC President Cyril Ramaphosa, will today, 30 July 2020, address a virtual centenary celebration in honour of Isithwalandwe/Seaparankoe Comrade Harry Gwala. Born on the 30 July 1920 near Pietermaritzburg, Cde Gwala also became known as Munt’omdala – the Lion of the Midlands. pic.twitter.com/8tfmv28kus — African National Congress (@MYANC) July 30, 2020  Virtual ceremony to commemorate what would have been a struggle icon, Harry Gwala’s one-hundredth birthday:  – Reporting by Bongani Gema 