The Commission of Inquiry into State Capture will hear Bosasa related testimony when it resumes on Monday.  Private contractor Charl Le Roux will be testifying at the commission that’s sitting in Johannesburg. Bosasa, now African Global Operations, is alleged to have bribed government officials for years to secure government deals, exceeding about R12 billion. Politicians and prosecutors were also alleged to have received money from the facilities management company. The company’s CEO David Watson died in a car accident in 2019, during a week he was due to appear before a tax inquiry. Last week, the Commission heard how former CEO of the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) Lucky Montana allegedly acquired several properties with the help of Precise Trade and Investment, a company owned by Loubser van der Walt. According to the report, Van der Walt had done legal work for TMM Holdings, a company with close links to Seyangena which scored a multi-million-rand contract at the agency. According to the evidence presented by the commission’s investigator, Clint Oellermann, Montana also sold one of his properties at an inflated price to Precise Trading. Oellermann told the commission in Johannesburg that Montana bought three properties between 2014 and 2015, at the same time Siyangena’s contract was being extended. In the video below, the Commission’s investigator Clint Oellermann testifies:  Commission chair Justice Raymond Zondo also expressed worry and surprise that no one took an interest in the prosecution of cases brought by the Prasa Board on the alleged corruption at the rail agency. Zondo said then President Jacob Zuma and his ministers ought to have asked questions regarding the cases. He was responding to former Prasa Board chair Popo Molefe’s testimony at the commission. Molefe detailed how law enforcement agencies were paralysed and failed to act on the Prasa cases. He said many competent officers and prosecutors had been sidelined. In response, a visibly angry Justice Zondo said Parliament also failed in its oversight role.