Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader Julius Malema says democracy and political power in the hands of the African National Congress (ANC) is meaningless as it does not come with economic freedom. Addressing a virtual rally to mark the party’s seventh anniversary, on Sunday, Malema says the party has become an unstoppable force of change in the country. “The EFF stands on the shoulders of Winnie Mandela, Zindzi Mandela, Robert Sobukwe, Julius Nyerere, Robert Mugabe, Peter Mokaba and Nomvo Booi,” he tells supporters, lamenting that the ANC was encouraging white monopoly capital.  Malema says the liberation movement no longer has the capacity to lead South Africa. “It has become the desk of white monopoly capital that appoints different managers every five years to manage the affairs of the rich at the expense of the poor. The former liberation movement no longer has any coherent programme of action to change the conditions of our people. Political power in the control of the post-1994 government is meaningless as it has not come with economic freedoms. The post-1994 government has played an active role in reproducing the inequality and imbalances of the past,” says Malema. ‘Postponement of 2021 local elections’ The EFF has also called for the postponement of next year’s 2021 local government elections to 2024. In commemoration of the day, the party urged its members, supporters and well-wishers to dress in black to mourn the victims of COVID-19. Malema said the coronavirus has deprived political parties their democratic right to canvass for the elections. “We, therefore, call on all political parties to engage in a democratic parliamentary process that should postpone the 2021 Local Government Elections to 2024 and introduce a single elections regime which will mean that there should be only one election in South Africa from 2024 onwards,” adds Malema. Political analyst Dr Ntsikelelo Breakfast says EFF has done well seven years after its establishment:  Below is Malema’s virtual address on Sunday:  