President Cyril Ramaphosa has expressed sadness at the passing of South Africa’s former Ambassador to the Kingdom of Denmark, Zindziswa “Zindzi” Nobutho Mandela. Zindzi passed away in the early hours of Monday in a Johannesburg hospital at the age of 59. She had been posted to Denmark in 2015 and had been designated to become South Africa’s Head of Mission in Monrovia, Liberia. Zindzi was the youngest daughter of former President Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela and struggle stalwart Nomzamo Winnie Madikizela-Mandela. The President offers his sincere condolences to the Ambassador’s immediate family, the Mandela family at large, friends of the late Ambassador, and the Nelson Mandela Foundation. President Ramaphosa says: “I offer my deep condolences to the Mandela family as we mourn the passing of a fearless political activist who was a leader in her own right. “Our sadness is compounded by this loss being visited upon us just days before the world marks the birthday of the great Nelson Mandela. “Zindzi Mandela was a household name nationally and internationally, who during our years of struggle brought home the inhumanity of the apartheid system and the unshakeable resolve of our fight for freedom. “After our liberation, she became an icon of the task we began of transforming our society and stepping into spaces and opportunities that had been denied to generations of South Africans. “Her spirit joins Tata Madiba and Mama Winnie in a reunion of leaders to whom we owe our freedom.” Liberation struggle She was raised in Soweto and educated South Africa and Swaziland. Zindzi Mandela spent many years involved in the liberation struggle and embraced roles in the arts, philanthropy, and business. In her political career, she served as Deputy President of the Soweto Youth Congress, was a member of the Release Mandela Campaign, and was an underground operative of Umkhonto weSizwe. The President has also extended his condolences to the late Ambassador’s colleagues in the Department of International Relations and Cooperation and the diplomatic community in South Africa and Denmark. In the video below ANC spokesperson Pule Mabe speaks on the passing of Zindzi:  Political parties have also expressed their condolences on the passing of Zindzi Mandela: The EFF is saddened by the passing of fearless and uncompromising Zindziswa Mandela. We send our heartfelt condolences to the family, friends and colleagues. May her soul rest in power. #ZindziMandela pic.twitter.com/gT6wudjxUU — Economic Freedom Fighters (@EFFSouthAfrica) July 13, 2020  [STATEMENT] ON THE PASSING OF
HER EXCELLENCY AMBASSADOR ZINDZISWA MANDELA-HLONGWANE Statement By
PRINCE MANGOSUTHU BUTHELEZI MP
FOUNDER AND PRESIDENT EMERITUS OF THE IFP
#ZindziMandela @MkhulekoHlengwa pic.twitter.com/SSE0q2fBje — Inkatha Freedom Party (@IFPinParliament) July 13, 2020 