A farm foreman has been shot and killed by unknown armed robbers while paying the wages of other employees at Marble Hall, outside Groblersdal in Limpopo. The robbers fled with an unknown amount of money and the farm vehicle, which was later abandoned. The deceased has been identified as Jeremias Maceke, aged 39. The Democratic Alliance in the province has requested for Community Safety Department to report to parliament on its plan to reduce farm attacks. According to police, 39-year old Jeremias Maceke was sitting inside his work vehicle at the JJ Bekker Boerdery farm on Saturday afternoon, when a group of three robbers, who were armed attacked him. They demanded that he hand over the money that he was paying to other farm employees. The suspects then shot and killed Maceke. They then fled in his work vehicle. The vehicle was later abandoned about a kilometre from where Maceke was killed. According to the Democratic Alliance’s Jacques Smalle, this is the third attack at a farm in Limpopo this month alone. He says his party has requested that the provincial Community Safety Department presents a report on rural safety at the legislature. “During the month of July we have already witnessed three brutal farm attacks. It is clear that SAPS rural safety plan is not and are under-resourced in the region of Limpopo. We have called upon the MEC for safety and security in the province to table a report in the state of the rural safety plan and also the effect of that in our province,” says Smalle. Police spokesperson, Brigadier Motlafela Mojapelo has urged anyone with information to contact the nearest police. “The police in Marble Hall have launched for about three suspects who allegedly shot and killed a farm employee at a citrus farm outside Marble Hall on Saturday afternoon the deceased aged 39 was allegedly busy other employees their wages on behalf of his employer when the suspects shot him and took the money anyone with information is requested to contact crime stop number 0800 10111,” says Mojapelo. No one has been arrested yet for Maceke’s killing. Farm attacks under the spotlight: 