Western Cape Premier Alan Winde has tested positive for the coronavirus (COVID-19). Winde announced his positive status on his Facebook page. He says he tested positive after he experienced flu-like symptoms over the weekend. Winde says he will now be going into isolation for 14 days. He says he will continue to perform his duties while in isolation. Winde, who’s a diabetic, says he is at a higher risk of developing a more serious illness. “The digicons continue this week. The PCC meeting with the president and other premiers carry on this week. The cabinets carry on this week. I’ll just be doing them from home from my laptop. But also, just a side note that I am a Type 2 diabetic, which means that I must also be extra vigilant and that’s the message that we send to everybody in this province. When you have a co-morbidity, please you must be extra vigilant during this time and specifically diabetics.”  Western Cape COVID-19 update COVID-19 Dashboard update for the Western Cape: Total confirmed cases – 72 808
 Total recoveries – 53 881
 Total tests done – 334 928 View the dashboard  https://t.co/B0LUGjszUp. For a comprehensive daily update, see Premier Alan Winde’s statement later today. pic.twitter.com/wi3enPIFbM — Western Cape Gov (@WesternCapeGov) July 8, 2020  North West Premier in self-isolation On Tuesday, North West Premier Job Mokgoro also tested positive for the coronavirus. Another MEC also tested positive and went into self-isolating. That was a day after the provinces Cogta MEC Gordon Kegakilwe died of COVID19-related complications. Kegakilwe died in hospital on Monday afternoon after testing positive for the coronavirus last week. Eight other MECs, who were in contact with Kegakilwe, are reportedly in self-quarantine. Mokgoro’s Spokesperson Vuyisile Ngesi said the premier was in self-isolation, after receiving results, confirming that he has tested positive for the virus.  According to a statement released by the provincial government, Premier Mokgoro is not incapacitated to carry out his duties as he was only presented with only one symptom -which is cough – although he tested positive. “The Premier will, therefore, continue to discharge his duties albeit remotely and has instructed members of the Premier’s Support Staff who have worked with him closely in the last two weeks to test; while taking the necessary precautions,” reads the statement in part.