Mpumalanga has adopted a three pillar strategy to deal and mitigate the impact of the coronavirus (COVID-19). The strategy focuses on prevention and the burial of those who succumb to the virus. This was revealed by Premier Refilwe Mtsweni-Tsipane to President Cyril Ramaphosa during his visit to assess the province’s response to COVID-19 in Mbombela. The province has more than 1 400 COVID-19 cases, 520 of which have recovered. Emalahleni is the epicentre with more than 400 cases. Below is the provincial breakdown of COVID-19 cases in SA:  Free State  North West  Gauteng  Mpumalanga  Northern Cape Eastern Cape  Limpopo  KwaZulu-Natal Western Cape COVID-19 STATISTICS IN SOUTH AFRICA sabcnews.com |  SABC News Channel | SABC Radio news SOURCE: Department of Health  & ﻿National Institute of Communicable Diseases  CASES GAUTENG WESTERN CAPE KWAZULU-NATAL EASTERN CAPE FREE STATE LIMPOPO NORTH WEST MPUMALANGA NORTHERN CAPE 19630 3724 2381 2902 1039 UNALLOCATED 0 As at 10 July 2020 610 DEATHS 19 249 36 CONFIRMED CASES | 250 687 DEATHS| 3 860 TESTS CONDUCTED | 2 057 232 RECOVERIES | 118 232 ACTIVE CASES | 128 595 44432 22 33 7 7870 (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); Ramaphosa has expressed cautious optimism over the number of COVID-19 cases in Mpumalanga, saying people need to continue adhering to lockdown regulations with the infection rate expected to soar in the coming days. He was speaking after being addressed by the provincial Coronavirus Control Council. “A good strategy here in Mpumalanga is that members of the community are accountable to one another. If we see one person not adhering to the protocols, like not wearing a mask, we should ask them why they are not adhering to the guidelines,” the President said. The President has reiterated the call for an end to the stigmatisation of people who have contracted and recovered from the virus. South Africa has recorded over 168 000 COVID-19 infections; of which nearly 82 000 have recovered. 2 844 people have died from COVID-19 related illnesses. “We’ve got another problem that is raging in our country; the intolerance that people have to those who are seen as having contracted or recovered from the virus. The stigmatisation; where people begin to fear those who are known to have contracted it and recovered. So the stigmatisation must end because we cannot move forward with the level of intolerance that is being displayed by some within our nation,” Ramaphosa said. He has encouraged the provincial government of Mpumalanga to continue the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. “I was very pleased to hear that you are using technology to good effect, in all that you are doing, in managing the pandemic, in tracing those who may have come to contact with those who are infected and also developing apps. This is very pleasing it shows that indeed Mpumalanga it is the province of the rising sun.” In the video below, Ramaphosa visits Mpumalanga to asses the province’s response to COVID-19:  Mpumalanga handling of COVID-19 In June, Health Minister Dr Zweli Mkhize appealed for nurses and doctors to come forward to assist in the effort to eradicate COVID-19. The Minister was visiting Mpumalanga province, where he gave the Rob Ferreira Hospital in Mpumalanga the thumbs up. Mkhize said the province has been very impressive so far on how it was dealing with the virus, clamping down on cluster outbreaks in supermarkets and managing incoming and outgoing foreign travelers. “As I was driving here to Mpumalanga and walking about, I’ve seen many people with masks, but some of them have them under their chin or in their hands. It’s important for us all to maintain the mask-wearing. Changing our behaviour is imperative,” he said as he urged people to wear masks.