The funeral service of struggle stalwart Andrew Mlangeni will take place at the University of Johannesburg’s Soweto Campus on Wednesday morning. Government says COVID-19 regulations will be followed. On Tuesday, final preparations were made at the Mlangeni household in Dube, Soweto, in Gauteng. President Cyril Ramaphosa accorded Mlangeni a Special Official Funeral Category One. Mlangeni died last Tuesday at the age of 95, following an abdominal complaint. His funeral service will be followed by a burial service at the Roodepoort Cemetery. South African National Defence Force Chief, General Solly Shoke, visited Mlangeni’s home in Soweto on Tuesday to  inspect the level of readiness of the ceremonial aspect of the funeral. “Unfortunately we won’t do what we normally do or what we would’ve done for him, it will be low level ceremonial involvement due to COVID-19 rules that are applicable, so when you lose someone high in society who is respectable, who has served the nation with honour we’ve got to show some form of respect,” he said. In the video below, SANDF members visit Mlangeni’s home: Mlangeni lay in state Mlangeni’s body lay in state overnight at his home. It arrived there on Tuesday afternoon. African National Congress Treasurer General Paul Mashatile officiated the draping of the coffin with ANC colours together with representatives of MKMVA in honour of Mlangeni as one of the founding members of UMkhonto Wesizwe. After a brief service before the procession leaves the Mlangeni home on Wednesday morning, Mashatile will hand over the ANC flag to the family as a gesture of gratitude and in honour of Mlangeni’s unbroken years of service to the governing party. In the video below, the struggle stalwart’s body arrives at his home:  In the video below, Mashatile reflects on the life and times of Mlangeni:  Mlangeni was the last surviving Rivonia Trialist – who spent more than 20 years on Robben Island after his conviction at the Treason Trial in 1964. Below are 10 facts on his life as a golfer: