Former Police Minister Nathi Nhleko says when he commissioned Werksmans Attorney to look into the matter of rendition of five Zimbabwean citizens in 2010, he was seeking to find out if there had been any misconduct by members of the Hawks. Nhleko is testifying at the State Capture Commission today. He says he sought the assistance of the law firm after finding out that there were two reports by the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) on the matter with differing conclusions as to whether Anwar Dramat and Shadrack Sibiya should be prosecuted. Nhleko has been accused by former IPID Head Robert McBride of using the rendition matter to get rid of senior Hawks staff and replace them with those more malleable to his agenda. “Then you have this allegation that this officer is involved in the commission of a crime. So, indeed that does something to the reputation of the institution and of course, you will not necessarily prosecute this employee on the basis that you committed a, b, c, which falls under criminal activity, but if that happens it will be disrepute to the image of the institution.” Below is Nathi Nhleko’s testimony at the State Capture Commission:  Hours extended Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo announced earlier that the hours that the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture will run, will be extended.  He granted some postponements to witnesses scheduled to appear before the commission this week. They were from various law enforcement agencies, including former Independent Police Investigative Directorate head, Robert McBride. The commission has a deadline of March next year to finish its work. Zondo who is the commission’s chairperson says that it is important that the deadline is met. “We may have a situation soon where we require people to appear in what I call our evening sessions. That means that you might not be required to present yourself at 9 o’clock or 10 o’clock, but maybe at 4 o’clock and maybe when the witness for the day is done we start with somebody. Maybe we need two hours, three hours and then we are done. So, we go up to 7pm. As I am granting postponements, I just want people to understand that we are in that situation.”