United States President Donald Trump will resume his controversial coronavirus briefings later Tuesday as total cases in the country surge close to 4 million with more than 143 000 dead and rising. The politicised nature of the briefings and US response to the pandemic has seen the President struggling in recent polling that shows him trailing his Democratic rival Joe Biden by double digits ahead of November’s election. As cases continue to surge across the south and west of the country, some 6 out of 10 Americans disapprove of Trump’s handling of the public health crisis. A recent ABC News/Washington Post Poll confirming what so many others are showing – a majority of Americans, some 64% distrust President Trump on coronavirus. Numbers so dismal for his re-election prospects that he tweeted this picture of himself finally encouraging the wearing of masks… a day ahead of the resumption of his much-criticized briefings. “We had very successful briefings. I was doing them, and we had a lot of people watching, record numbers watching. In the history of cable television, television, there’s never been anything like it. And we were doing very well. And I thought it would be sort of automatic, and a lot of positive things were happening. “And frankly, a lot of the country is doing well. A lot of people don’t say, as you understand, but we have had this big flare up in Florida, Texas, a couple of other places.” While the President refers to the record numbers watching his briefings, the numbers that really matter and the record cases and deaths being recorded with the state of Florida reporting more than 10 000 new infections in the last 24 hours. Texas at almost 8 000, California at close to 9 000 news cases almost 6 months into this pandemic in the United States. And like what happened in New York, in March and April, in terms of hospitals being overwhelmed, that’s now happening in those southern and western regions of the country. And for public health experts like Dr Anthony Fauci – navigating the politicisation of the pandemic has been tricky. “If you want to get a message across, build up the confidence of others that you are speaking the truth and you are speaking and advising on the basis of evidence and science because that’s the thing that’s clean and crystal clear. There’s not, you know, ideology involved. There’s…there’s not political persuasion involved. Just stick with the data and use that to make whatever advice or recommendation you’re going to do.” New York City enters phase 4 re-opening While the former epicentre of New York City entered a phase four re-opening on Monday, absent the return of many indoor activities, the region’s leaders are being very cautious to avoid what’s happening in other states that rushed the process. New York Governor Andrew Cuomo says, “It’s the exact same conversation with the president of the United States. We talked about reopening the economy and he said, ‘just reopen, just reopen the economy. There’s no reason for any of this stuff, phases, data, the masks, it’s all baloney. Just reopen.’ Yeah, we saw how well that worked. Go ask Florida and Texas and Arizona how well that worked. In schools, what does he say? ‘Reopen the schools. Just open them up. Don’t worry.’ Yeah. He was wrong on the economic reopening. He’s wrong on the schools reopening.” With lessons that politics has little sway in a public health emergency – as the Editor-in-Chief of Lancet Richard Horton explains, “The country that I admire greatly because of its scientific talent, the United States of America, is going through a very strange period in its history. The political climate is so strange to understand because you have a government led by a president who seems not to respect science and I think this is one of the biggest threats that we face.” The real clear politics national average of all the polling giving Joe Biden a 9 point edge over President Trump just over three months from election day.  