The ANC has called on people to honour Madiba by showing compassion and solidarity with the poor and needy. People across the globe are observing Mandela Day on Saturday. ANC Secretary General, Ace Magashule, has called on South Africans to unite to alleviate societal ills. “The ANC urges all South Africans and ANC members, branches and supporters to play their part in the spirit of Mandela Day; to alleviate the burden of pain, hunger and sickness. Compassion and solidarity must characterise our interaction to those who are less fortunate than us, those who are still homeless, jobless, have no water and electricity,” says Magashule. Struggle veteran Rose Sonto says there’s a need to strengthen the fight against corruption in the country. Sonto was among ANC leaders in the Western Cape who gathered at the Drakenstein Correctional Centre outside Paarl to lay the wreath at the statue of Madiba as part of Mandela Day celebrations. In the video below, the SABC News looks at the importance of charity:  Sonto was Madiba’s driver after his release from Victor Verster Prison in 1990. He says Madiba would be concerned about corruption in the country. “We should lock up all the corrupt people; that’s all we can do. All those corrupt should go to jail and bring the ANC moral values to what they were designed to be so that the ANC can be the liberation movement that was meant to be.” Chance to make lasting change The Democratic Alliance says Mandela Day is a reminder of all the work that still needs to be done to make South Africa’s economy and country more fair and inclusive. The party says the goodwill shown on this day every year should be an everyday thing. “They will only have true meaning if they spur us into action to find lasting solutions to these challenges. While we’re re-imagining a post-COVID world, let us imagine one in which a clear path exists for these marginalised men and women to reintegrate back into society and the economy.” The party is calling for South Africans to join hands to change their society. “There is enough will and drive among individuals, civil society and business to step in where government drops the ball. That is the power me must harness if we’re to rebuild our country the way we want it to be.” Non-racial society One SA Movement has joined political parties in calling for unity in honour of Madiba’s birthday. One SA leader Mmusi Maimane is urging South Africans to continue working towards a non-racial and economically inclusive society. Maimane says South Africa can achieve a truly non-racial society. “We dare never lose track of the values of reconciliation, of a non-racial society, a society that is inclusive economically for all our citizens.” The National Freedom Party (NFP) says it plans to assist people in need for 67 days as part of Mandela Day celebrations. The NFP has called for unity. “The NFP will use this Mandela Day to make a difference in our society by handing out food parcels to the needy. We plan to continue supporting disadvantaged families, not only for 67 minutes, but for a consistent 67 days,” says NFP Secretary-General, Canaan Mdletshe. In the video below, political parties honour Mandela for his selfless service:  The Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP) has called on people to observe social distancing measures – as they use their 67-minutes to do good deeds for International Mandela Day. IFP leader Velenkosini Hlabisa says: “We are reminded that this is a day where we must work for socio-economic justice, our people who are still suffering from the ills of the past and new ills of this age – violence against women and children. We are faced with the pandemic – and while we celebrate the day of Madiba, let us all be vigilant and take Every necessary step to save lives and not be counted as statistics.” The Congress of the People (COPE) has called on people to work towards alleviating poverty. “It is very important that all of us must fight this poverty that is so rife in our society. We must never forget what Nelson Mandela has done,” says COPE’s spokesperson is Dennis Bloem. 