Eskom has urged customers to use electricity sparingly after six generation units tripped and fears increased of a return to load shedding. The power utility says this has left its systems constrained and warns that further breakdowns could compromise its ability to supply power to the country. Spokesperson Sikonathi Mantshantsha says, “Of the 6 units that tripped, one at the Majuba Power Station has since been returned to service. Eskom teams are working hard at returning the other units to service. We have lost a generation unit each at Majuba, Tutuka, Hendrina and Duvha power station. The return to service of one each at Matla, Kendal and Tutuka power stations have been delayed…” Should there be any additional breakdowns, this will compromise Eskom’s ability to supply the country through the peak. Renewable energy helping to keep the lights on: Eskom  Eskom recently said the renewable energy on the electricity grid has helped the power utility to keep the lights on. The power utility, which has had to institute loadshedding across the country, says renewables are the reason why there’s no complete blackout of the system. Debengwa’s resignation came as a surprise: Experts Experts say the resignation of Power Utility Eskom Non-Executive Director Sifiso Dabengwa has come as a surprise. In a statement, Eskom Interim Chair, Malegapuru Makgoba, said Dabengwa tendered his letter of resignation to Public Enterprises Minister, Pravin Gordhan last week. The cash strapped Power utility has not explained reasons for his resignation. Eskom has been battling to keep the lights on again amid unplanned maintenance of power stations – even as power demand plummets during the lockdown. Corporate law attorney, Matodzi Ratshimbilani says, “It comes as a surprise. As you know the Eskom board had to be changed several times. The current board was touted as having well experienced people. Dabengwa was one of them. It is a great loss for Eskom. Sometimes when members don’t agree they resign and let other people with different views take the company forward.” Below is Sifiso Dabengwa’s resignation letter: 