South Africa has recorded its highest number of coronavirus (COVID-19) related fatalities in a day since the first coronavirus case was reported in the beginning of March. According to the Department of Health, a further 216 people have succumbed to the virus bringing the death to 4 669. The country has also recorded yet another huge jump in the number of coronavirus (COVID) infections, with 13 172 new cases. This brings the cumulative number of cases in the country to 324 221. A total of 165 591 people have recovered from the virus. 2 324 923 324 221 165 591 153 961 4 669 170 260  As at 16 July 2020 46 796 (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); South Africa now ranks eighth in the world in terms of the number of coronavirus infections registered so far, overtaking the United Kingdom (UK) and Spain in the last 48 hours. However, in terms of active cases, South Africa ranks fifth after Russia. Italy, Spain and the UK, which were some of the worst-hit countries have now registered less cases than South Africa. SA is also the worst affected country on the continent. However in terms of -related deaths the country still ranks low, registering far less than Italy, Spain and the UK. Acknowledging that South Africa now has one of the highest numbers of infections in the world, Minister for Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs, Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma said it was because of the surge, that the government had decided to introduce stricter measures. #COVID19 Statistics in SA as at 16 July. pic.twitter.com/RVT9xw8prh — Dr Zweli Mkhize (@DrZweliMkhize) July 16, 2020 Meanwhile, the Archbishop of the Anglican Church of Southern Africa Thabo Makgoba has called on citizens to wear their masks in public at all times, even in their homes if necessary. President Cyril Ramaphosa announced on Sunday that the wearing of masks is now mandatory, but many people continue to ignore the rule. Makgoba says people have an obligation to protect one another to curb the spread of the virus. “What we owe to each other and what I think is our moral, ethical and biblical imperative is to love your neighbour as you love yourself and to love your God. And this we can do by wearing masks all the time, in public and if needs be, also in our homes. This will ensure that we put loving neighbour and self into a practical application because by wearing masks, we are protecting ourselves and we are protecting ourselves from the others. But more importantly, we are protecting others from ourselves infecting them. So, God Bless you as you do the right thing. And my condolences once again to those that have died within the Anglican fold in the country, in the continent and the world. Even this, will come to pass.” In the Infographic below are more guidelines on wearing masks:  