Zimbabwe’s government and police are under fire after a civil activist and an investigative journalist were taken into custody without arrest warrants. Jacob Ngarivhume, leader of Transform Zimbabwe, was arrested on Monday morning apparently for refusing to cancel the planned demonstration against the government next week. Reporter, Hopewell Chin’ono, has been releasing a series of reports related to government corruption. Chin’ono posted a video on social media of police officers accosting in his home. Just before lunchtime on Monday, Chin’ono, went live on his Facebook account showing police officers entering his home. Moments earlier he had written: “They are breaking into my home. Alert the World.” Chino’ono has been on an anti-corruption crusade, his writing exposing alleged corruption in different government ranks. It was his expose that led to the arrest and subsequent firing of former Health Minister Obadiah Moyo over tender fraud allegations. His lawyer, Beatrice Mtetwa rushed to his home. “We have just arrived at Hopewell’s house after receiving an SOS that his home had been surrounded by about eight state security agents and they broke the glass door, gained entry and he has been abducted. We aren’t sure where he has been taken because his worker says they didn’t produce a warrant when they came to the house.” Award winning #Zimbabwe journalist Hopewell Chin’ono says his house has broken into by state authorities. Could it be because he has been fearlessly reporting about the situation in #Zimbabwe from social issues right through to wanton corruption and looting? pic.twitter.com/AkUgIwXqzl — Peter Ndoro (@peterndoro) July 20, 2020  State dissidents In what seems to be a crackdown against state dissidents, Ngarivhume was also arrested. The leader of Transform Zimbabwe, a civil organisation that has been calling the government out for their failure to address the socio-economic hardships as well as corruption plaguing the country. Ngarivhume is organising a nationwide demonstration against ZANU-PF’s rule for 31 July. It is believed that is the reason he too was arrested. The pair is currently being held at the Harare Central Police Station. “Initially, the lawyers from ZLHR were denied access to their clients, but we understand that the lawyers now have access to their clients but we are calling on the Zimbabwean authorities to release the two activists and drop the charges that have been leveled, Because they are simply doing their work and journalism is not a crime and should not be a crime. In fact, Zimbabwe should be welcoming the exposure of corruption and calling for decisive action and demonstrating zero tolerance towards corruption in Zimbabwe,” says Human Rights Watch’s Southern Africa Director, Dewa Mavhinga. Zimbabwe’s police released a statement on Monday afternoon saying the two activists have been arrested for incitement to participate in public violence in relation to the 31 July demonstration. The opposition party has responded to the arrests. We condemn the arrest and persecution of journalist Hopewell Chin'ono and activist Jacob Ngarivhume. Section 67 of the Constitution gives every person the right to challenge the Govt. We demand their freedom & immediate release. *RETWEET FOR AWARENESS* pic.twitter.com/lISfpSZn8K — MDC Alliance (@mdczimbabwe) July 20, 2020 