South Africa reports a big jump in COVID-19 deaths following 572 new fatalities in the last 24 hours while new infections surge by over 13 000. According to the latest figures released by the Department of Health, almost 6 000 lives have been lost due to COVID-19 in South Africa. 400 lives have been lost in Eastern Cape due to COVID-19 in the past 24 hours. A total of 394 948 confirmed cases have also been reported. The total number of tests conducted to date is 2 585 474. The number of recoveries currently stands at 229 175 which translates to a recovery rate of 58%.  #COVID19 Statistics in SA as at 22 July. pic.twitter.com/hPq2jBvRXa — Dr Zweli Mkhize (@DrZweliMkhize) July 22, 2020  Eastern Cape to reach its peak by August The Eastern Cape has the third-highest number of coronavirus infections in the country. With almost 68 000  infections that’s about 17% of the national cases. Most of its cases are in urban areas such as the two metropolitan municipalities of Buffalo City and Nelson Mandela Bay. But, there are also concerns that the virus is now spreading in semi-urban and rural areas. According to the Eastern Cape’s Department of Health’s Project Management Unit Professor Ian Sonne, the province’s infection rate is expected to reach its peak by August and September – with around 90 000 cases. And this could see as many as 9 000 deaths. This was revealed during a parliamentary briefing by Eastern Cape health authorities on the provincial government’s strategy to deal with the rising number of infections. Sonne warned that the number of deaths in the Eastern Cape is expected to rise dramatically – if it fails to redouble its efforts at fighting the virus. “At this point in time, there is an anticipated 9 000 deaths in the province.  Although it would be unfortunate unavoidable deaths, these deaths will occur despite interventions and related to the nature of the disease. However, we are concerned that if we do not increase the capacity in the EC, this number of deaths will exceed 9 000.” Mkhize visiting Eastern Cape The Minister of Health, Dr Zweli Mkhize is in the province since Wednesday. He will continue with his two-day visit in the Nelson Mandela Bay in the Eastern Cape on Thursday and is expected to visit the Dora Nginza hospital and the metro’s coronavirus hotspot of Motherwell. His visit is to monitor the new implementation of a COVID-19 project management unit. Dr Mkhize toured Livingstone hospital, following a meeting with Premier Oscar Mabuyane and other stakeholders.  