The June and Andrew Mlangeni Foundation has paid tribute to Andrew Mlangeni, saying he has left a legacy of solidarity and commitment towards the development of South Africa. The struggle veteran passed away overnight at the age of 95. He was admitted to 1 Military Hospital in Pretoria on Tuesday night following an abdominal complaint. Mlangeni was the last surviving Rivonia Trialist – who spent more than 20 years on Robben Island after his conviction at the Treason Trial in 1964. The Foundation’s Chairperson Hlengiwe Mkhize says: “He had a way of simplifying his commitment, his actions, his involvement and wanted to limit the faults and wanted solidarity and commitment to the cause. We are dealing with the loss of a man who when he committed to a cause, for him that was a point of no return.” In the video below Professor Hlengiwe Mkhize pays tribute to Mlangeni  Earlier, President Cyril Ramaphosa offered his sincere condolences to Mlangeni’s family, as well as the friends, comrades, and associates of the struggle hero countrywide and internationally. The President expressed sadness after the passing of the last remaining Rivonia Trialist. A giant tree has fallen. Andrew Mlangeni, the last surviving Rivonia trialist, is no more. A selfless struggle veteran, he dedicated his life to fighting injustice & spent more than 20 years on Robben Island. Isithwalandwe Andrew Mlangeni, your legacy lives on. #RIPAndrewMlangeni pic.twitter.com/OJiyXPlgvz — Presidency | South Africa  (@PresidencyZA) July 22, 2020  The Desmond & Leah Tutu Legacy Foundation has described Mlangeni as “a giant who opposed injustice to his dying day.” In a statement, the Foundation says: “South Africa today mourns the death of Tata Andrew Mlangeni, the last surviving member of an extraordinary cohort of anti-apartheid movement leaders sentenced alongside Nelson Mandela to life imprisonment at the conclusion of the so-called Rivonia Trial.” In the video below  SABC News looks into Mlangeni’s journey  The Ahmed Kathrada Foundation has described Andrew Mlangeni as a humble person, who voiced his opposition towards corruption. In the video below,  Neeshan Balton who is the Executive Director for the Ahmed Kathrada Foundation pays tribute 