Late struggle icon Andrew Mlangeni has been described as a hero who played a huge role in liberating the country. The African National Congress (ANC) held a virtual memorial service on Sunday to honour and celebrate the life of the last remaining Rivonia Trialist. Mlangeni died last week, aged 95 years. The party says it will forever cherish his lifelong teachings about the struggle. Ntate Andrew Mlangeni a fighter, who never backed down from the brutal apartheid regime, was the last remaining Rivonia trialist. The ANC says his passing leaves a huge void.  “An iconic father of our nation; a heroic leader of the struggle of our people; an outstanding volunteer of our struggle; a Commander of our glorious army of Umkhonto Wesizwe,” says ANC’s Secretary General, Ace Magashule.  ‘Never harboured antagonism hatred’ The ANC Women’s League says his strong character saw him being prosecuted by the police and assisting many in their fight for the rights of women and children. “The Women’s League would like to thank bab’uMlangeni for (who) he was. He was outspoken and never waited for anyone to speak for him, but he never harboured any antagonism hatred. It is very clear to all of us why he joined the ANC.”  As a former member of Umkhonto Wesizwe Mlangeni has been hailed as a true soldier who was always strategic in how to approach the enemy. “The last remaining Rivonia trialist, a dedicated and gallant fighter for the freedom of his people, right to the end of his adult life,” says ANC Veteran’s League member, Dr Snuki Zikalala. ‘Country is poorer without Mlangeni’ Cosatu’s General Secretary Bheki Ntshalintshali says current leaders should emulate the struggle icon as they battle corruption. Ntshalintshali says the country is poorer without Mlangeni. “Our main challenge now is to try and emulate leaders like Ntate Mlangeni as we try to solve our atrocious level of corruption, unemployment, poverty and inequality. The country is poorer today after the death of this legendary freedom fighter and a political titan. We can also do justice to his legacy by rededicating ourselves to fight against corruption, factionalism and political charlatans.” In this video COSATU, SACP pay tribute to the late icon:  Mlangeni will be buried on Wednesday. His funeral service will take place at the Soweto campus of the University of Johannesburg. 