Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader Julius Malema is calling for the dismissal of Presidential Spokesperson, Khusela Diko. The move comes amid mounting calls for Diko’s suspension following reports of involvement in alleged corruption over her husband’s R124 million tender awarded by the Gauteng government to supply PPE. There are concerns that Diko might have used her position and relationship with City of Johannesburg MMC for Group Corporate and Shared Services to garner the tender. Masuku is married to the Gauteng Health MEC, Dr Bandile Masuku. Speaking during his visit to the late struggle stalwart Andrew Mlangeni’s home, Malema said President Cyril Ramaphosa must lead by example. ‘The President must do an honourable thing and ask her to step aside in defence of the integrity and the image of that office, but the president won’t do so himself because the president is the same person who is protecting the document in court which are supposed to be revealing who got him the office of the president, so if he was a transparent man the anti-corruption man like he protected himself he would not have a problem in releasing those document he sealed in court, if he can lead by example, all those people would follow. In the video below, EFF leader weighs in on alleged COVID-19 corruption:   “How can a spokesperson for the president continue to speak on behalf of the president because the president is supposed to champion anti-corruption programme.” “How is she going to speak when the husband is deeply involved in corrupt activities? She’s probably part of the company or she’s probably herself filled in the documents.” Malema says the party is also not surprised by the corruption that emerged from the R500 billion COVID-19 relief fund that was intended to mitigate the impact of the pandemic. The African National Congress (ANC) in Gauteng has meanwhile summoned Diko and the Masukus to a meeting to discuss the matter. EFF Statement on PPE Tender Awarded to Husband of Presidency Spokesperson Khusela Diko pic.twitter.com/GIZUgG6Mkb — PRO AFRICANS-EFF (@Rebaone59275709) July 21, 2020 