The Freedom Front Plus (FF+) has questioned why the Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs Minister has the sole powers to extend the National State of Disaster without Parliament’s oversight. The Disaster Management Act empowers Minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma to make the extension on a month to month basis. The first 90 days expired on June 15 and had to be extended. Another one-month extension will start from Wednesday and end on August the 15th. FF + leader Pieter Groenewald says the circumstances of the national state of disaster are similar to those of the state of emergency. “If we had a State of Emergency the constitution determines that the President would have to approach the National Assembly in Parliament and that the extension would then have to be approved by 60% of the National Assembly. At this moment a single member of the executive the Minister has the power to extend the national disaster on a monthly basis. But it does not determine for how long and for how many times she can continue extending it on a monthly basis. And therefore the Freedom Front Plus says that it should be changed to such a manner that Parliament is not excluded from the decision to extend the national disaster but to be consulted and ensure that there is parliamentary oversight.” COPE supports extension of the state of disaster Congress of the People Spokesperson Dennis Bloem says the extension of the national state of disaster is even more important at this stage. COVID-19 cases in South Africa are fast approaching the 300 000 mark. “The situation now is more dangerous than before. We are on a real disaster now. It will be irresponsible and reckless for anyone not to support the extension because no one is safe anymore. Coronavirus is causing havoc throughout the country. We support the extension of the state of disaster.” In the video below, Ministers brief the media on amended regulations:  In the video below, the Justice Minister clarifies new state of disaster regulations: 