Former Environmental Affairs Minister Nomvula Mokonyane says she did not personally benefit from Bosasa’s community social investment programmes. She was responding to questioning at the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture in Johannesburg regarding the allegations former Bosasa Chief Operations Officer Angelo Agrizzi made against her. Agrizzi told the commission last year that Bosasa used to buy Mokonyane large supplies of alcohol and meat for her Christmas gatherings. He said the company also used to cater for her birthday parties and the funerals of her loved ones. Mokonyane says food supplies were only delivered to her house once. “There was one instance where they brought things because the Kagiso Community Hall was under reconstruction and then the food was collected … everything. And the women in Kagiso … as they normally did, including veterans, they had their own big pots and own stoves. They came and cooked and the following day everybody had a feast. That is the only time.” In the video below, former Minister Nomvula Mokonyane appears before the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture:  Allegations Agrizzi also told the commission that Mokonyane was one of a number of people who Bosasa paid monthly bribes. He alleged that Bosasa had installed CCTV cameras and other security equipment at her home. However, Mokonyane has described Agrizzi’s allegations against her as defamatory, contradictory and hateful. “A state-owned entity Telkom was one of those who sponsored our national conference and many other businesses that are included here and this has been something that has been done, not only for the ANC, not only for me, not only for members of the ANC, but this has been part of the democratic operations in this country where businesses have chosen to support those who they feel would pursue their interests and would reconstruct and rebuild this country. The support that was given and the relationship had no strings attached.” Analysis of Mokonyane’s State Capture Inquiry testimony with Karyn Maughan: 