The State Capture Commission is to serve a summons on former Correctional Services Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Patrick Gillingham, to appear before it at a date to be determined. Gillingham was expected to appear before the Commission on Wednesday after he was served with a notice to do so, but he has not responded to date. The Commission has cancelled its sitting for Wednesday and Gillingham will now be forced to testify. On Tuesday, the Commission did not hear the testimonies of former prisons boss Linda Mti and Pretoria Chief Magistrate Desmond Nair. This was due to the late delivery of notices to appear from the commission, outstanding affidavits by witnesses in the case of Nair and issues relating to Mti’s pending criminal case. Gillingham was on Wednesday expected to give his testimony in response to allegations made by former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi of receiving bribes in return for lucrative tenders from the Department of Correctional Services (DCS). Minerals Minister Gwede Mantashe who was scheduled to give his evidence on Thursday is currently in hospital after he tested positive for COVID-19. The video below is reporting that Minister Mantashe has been hospitalised:  Mokonyane rubbishes Agrizzi’s claims Meanwhile, former Environmental Affairs Minister Nomvula Mokonyane has told the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture in Johannesburg that the allegations which former BOSASA Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Angelo Agrizzi has made against her are disrespectful, insensitive and racist. Last year, Agrizzi told the Commission that Mokonyane had received some money from BOSASA – including for upgrades to her house – in exchange for government contracts. In her opening statement to the Commission, Mokonyane described Agrizzi’s allegations against her as a desperate attempt to discredit her. “I find them extremely defamatory, full of contradictions by someone who had ample time and opportunity. I find that they smack of hatred.” “I find that they seem to be an act of excessive desperation for the reasons better known by Mr Agrizzi to discredit me and what has remained of my character, my family and myself in particular.” Below is the live stream of Mokonyane’s testimony at the State Capture Inquiry: 