The South African Police Service (SAPS) has called on former police officers to apply to re-enlist. RT #sapsHQ Vacancies for #Re_Enlistment of former members of #SAPS #SAPSCareers. SAPS invites former members on the ranks of Const, Sergeant & Warrant Officer, who comply with the following requirements to apply for re-enlistment MEhttps://t.co/m1V69q8vPAhttps://t.co/NCViVywoOf pic.twitter.com/eDgnhFb3gs — SA Police Service  (@SAPoliceService) July 20, 2020  As the country battles the coronavirus, law enforcement is tasked with ensuring adherence to the regulations such as the ban on alcohol and tobacco products, as well as the prohibition on large gatherings and a night time curfew. There has also been an increase in the number of COVID-19 cases within law enforcement. Spokesperson Brenda Muridili says the applicants must have a clean service record. She adds that the closing date for applications is July 31. “The recruitment of police officers forms part of the SAPS towards improving staffing levels to enable the organisation to fulfil its constitutional mandate. The organisation is losing members due to various reasons including retirement. The successful candidates will be posted where there is currently a shortage including specialised units such as Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences, Public Order Police as well as newly established units such as the Taxi Violence Unit, Cold Case Investigation and the Murder and Robbery Unit. The prospective candidates must meet the requirements as outlined on the SAPS website.” Increasing COVID-19 cases The increasing number of coronavirus infections within the police has led to the closure of many police stations for the purposes of deep cleaning or decontamination. Community members are often directed to community centres nearby for assistance, as indicated in some of the tweets below: #sapsGP Boksburg police station temporarily closed for #COVID19 decontamination. Community Service Centre (CSC) will be operating from the Detective building next to the police station. CSC Commander Cell: 082 575 1740
Landline: 011-841-6858. MEhttps://t.co/8uTsCNcV9o pic.twitter.com/9iRvfeOuvT — SA Police Service  (@SAPoliceService) July 20, 2020  #sapsNW Brits police station temporarily closed for #COVID19 decontamination. CSC will now be operating from a mobile Venue Operational Centre in front of the police station. Lt Col Pitsi: 082 411 4468 or Captain Masilo: 060 987 4596. MEhttps://t.co/ZUJE9Msu0T pic.twitter.com/71VyCv2twL — SA Police Service  (@SAPoliceService) July 20, 2020  Over 7 000 infections within the police force have been recorded to date. Responding to a question during the Justice, Crime Prevention and Security Cluster media briefing last week, Police Minister Bheki Cele had said that over 4 000 police members were in isolation, 150 of whom were in hospital. And as thousands of people have been arrested for contravening lockdown regulations, more than 100 South African Police Service members are being investigated and some have been suspended for the same offence. National Spokesperson of the South African Policing Union Oscar Skommere says policing during lockdown has been a difficult experience. In the video below, Skommere has decried the lack of PPEs and insufficient cleaning of police vans: 