Parliament’s Presiding Officers have once again called on South Africans to adhere to coronavirus (COVID-19) related safety protocols. This follows the death of ANC MP, Martha Mmola, due to a COVID-19 related illness. Mmola served in the National Council of Provinces (NCOP). Parliament’s Spokesperson, Moloto Mothapo says: “So the presiding officers have also extended their heartfelt condolences to the family of mme [mother] Mmola as well as the bereaved families of South Africans who have passed away due to this pandemic, and have continued to urge South Africans to adhere to all safety protocols and to continue to stay at home, leave when necessary, wash hands and wear mask at all times” The call comes a day after Health Minister Dr Zweli Mkhize made an urgent appeal to South Africans to take the coronavirus seriously as the number of infections continue to rise in the country. On Saturday night, the Ministry announced 13 285 fresh COVID-19 infections, pushing the number of cases to 350 879. The Health Department also confirmed 144 new fatalities – which has taken the death toll to 4 948. In the video below, is a discussion on the rising number of infections in SA:  Mkhize says government has done all it could to contain the spread, but can’t win the battle alone. “We are extremely concerned that fatigue seems to have set in and South Africans are letting down their guard at a time when the spread of infection is is surging. We see poor or no social distancing in communities. Masks are being abandoned or not worn properly and there is laxity setting in around the frequent hand-washing,” he says. The Minister warns that this will have a direct influence in the rise in COVID-19 infections in the next two weeks. He is appealing to South Africans to be each other’s keeper and admonish those who refuse to adhere to the regulations in place that are aimed at limiting the spread of the virus. Below are the latest statistics of infections in SA: 2 471 747 364 328 191 059 168 236 5 033 196 092  As at 19 July 2020 49 006 (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));