Former Environmental Affairs Minister Nomvula Mokonyane has told the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture in Johannesburg that the allegations which former BOSASA Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Angelo Agrizzi has made against her are disrespectful, insensitive and racist. Last year, Agrizzi told the Commission that Mokonyane had received some money from BOSASA – including for upgrades to her house – in exchange for government contracts. In her opening statement to the Commission, Mokonyane described Agrizzi’s allegations against her as a desperate attempt to discredit her. “I find them extremely defamative, full of contradictions by someone who had ample time and opportunity. I find that they smack of hatred. I find that they seem to be an act of excessive desperation for the reasons better known by Mr Agrizzi to discredit me and what has remained of my character, my family and myself in particular. Below is the live stream of Mokonyane’s testimony at the State Capture Inquiry:  Mokonyane says when she was a public representative, she worked with BOSASA to perform charity work in her home township of Kagiso in Gauteng and other areas across the country. “A state-owned entity Telkom was one of those who sponsored our national conference and many other businesses that are included here and this has been something that has been done not only for the ANC, not only for me, not only for members of the ANC but this has been part of the democratic operations in this country, where businesses have chosen to support those who they feel would pursue their interests and would reconstruct and rebuild this country the support that was given and the relationship had no strings attached,” says Mokonyane. In the video below, a private contractor confirms doing electrical repairs at Nomvula Mokonyane’s house  Adv Notshe reflects on Agrizzi’s statement where he said the theme for Mokonyane’s 50th Birthday was “Break a Leg” at Victorian Guest House in Krugersdorp, Ms Mokonyane denies that, she says that’s not true and that’s not where her birthday Party was held at.#StateCaptureInquiry — State Capture Commission (@StateCaptureCom) July 20, 2020  Mokonyane says she held her party at Silverstar Hotel and not at Victorian Guest House in Krugersdorp as per Agrizzi’s statement. #StateCaptureInquiry — State Capture Commission (@StateCaptureCom) July 20, 2020  Minerals Resources Minister Gwede Mantashe and Pretoria Chief Magistrate Desmond Nair and Judge Tintswalo Makhubela are also expected to give evidence this week.