The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) in the North West has called on learners, teacher unions and parents to boycott schools. It says the coronavirus (COVID-19) infections continue to increase, hence the call for the boycott. EFF provincial secretary Papiki Babuile says the government’s decision to re-open schools is not based on any scientific evidence. “The latest scientific discovery suggesting that the COVID-19 virus ‘might’ be airborne further weakens the position advanced by the Department of Basic of Education. Already, a sizeable cohort of educators in almost all provinces with underlying conditions are not going back to school due to their susceptibility to the COVID-19. In the North West province, the situation is dire as some members of the executive including the Premier have tested positive for COVID-19 and are now either hospitalised or in self-isolation.” The One-SA Movement, led by Mmusi Maimane, has also called for the boycott of schooling on Friday. “After consultation with stakeholders, I today announce the @OneSA_Movement call for a National #SchoolStayaway this coming Friday, 10 July. We call on teachers and learners to stay home on Friday in protest of the decision to reopen schools before COVID-19 infections have peaked pic.twitter.com/y5NIkQKf7x — Mmusi Maimane (@MmusiMaimane) July 7, 2020  Bagaetsho, Kenya has shut its schools for the year. Alll we are asking for is that we must close ours till post the peak period of the virus. Let’s stay away on Friday. Send a message to Angie that her decision is irrational. This is for the safety of all citizens in our nation. pic.twitter.com/kJD1wIIWKL — Mmusi Maimane (@MmusiMaimane) July 8, 2020  In the video below, Mmusi Maimane approaches the High Court over the reopening of schools:  The North West Education Department says over 100 schools have been closed due to coronavirus infections, since schools reopened for some grades. The department’s spokesperson Elias Malindi says they are working with the Health Department to implement the health protocols. “We are working very closely with the Department of Health to come and conduct testing and screening for the contacts of that particular person. We will be doing fumigation and decontamination of the school, then after that process we will then inform the parents and the learners on when the lessons are going to resume. We have got so many schools in the province here which has been closed and now they are in operation.”