The UMzinyathi District Municipality in northern KwaZulu-Natal is proposing to rename the municipality after former Inkatha Freedom Party ( IFP) president, Mangosuthu Buthelezi. According to the municipality the decision was taken during a virtual council meeting last month. The municipality, however, says the decision is not linked to the on-going reconciliation talks between the IFP and the African National Congress  (ANC). UMzinyathi mayor, Petros Ngubane, says the municipality decided to honour Buthelezi while he is still alive. “One of the decisions that we are looking at as the municipality is that of renaming of the municipality. In fact the proposal is that it be named after his Excellency and iNkosi of the Buthelezi clan. We are proud of his effort which is also appreciated in as far as South African people are concerned and Africa, he has done a lot. The prince of KwaPhindangene will also be honoured and appreciated for the wonderful work that he did. He also served in various positions as chief minister, minister of home affairs also acting at some time during Mandela and later on when President Mbeki also was presiding.” However, the ANC in the iNkosi Bhambatha region which falls under the uMzinyathi District, says there was not enough consultation on the matter. The party’s regional chairperson, Lucky Moloi,  says the matter should have been discussed between the ANC and the IFP leadership before being taken to the council meeting. “There are a number of material gaps as it is on the issue and these gaps emanate from the fact that we do not have at this stage a substantive material submission on why there is a need for renaming. What we do have currently is a proposed renaming. Meaning the issue on the background is absent. The third issue that is absent on the submission is the issue that speaks to the financial implication and there is no such. And more so at a political level either there is no political interaction that has taken place between the ANC at a relevant level with that of the IFP so that the matter would be discussed. If I were to call it if there was a bilateral on the issue.” The IFP has welcomed the proposal. Party spokesperson, Mkhuleko Hlengwa, says Buthelezi is considering the proposal. “He is still applying his mind on the matter and consulting his family and we will make a determination on whether he accepts or does not the request. It is important to add that the IFP welcomes in principle the fact that the municipality wants to honour Prince Buthelezi. However, we will give respect and space to the personal processes that Prince Buthelezi wants to engage on this matter. We fundamentally believe that he has played a role in the development and uplifting of South Africans as a liberation icon and as an agent of democracy post-1994.” The district municipality says they are in the process of starting a public participation process, getting the views of the public on the proposed renaming. 