The Eastern Cape government is engaging with the private sector to try and procure more personal protective equipment (PPE) for frontline workers. Complaints about shortages of PPE have been raised by health care workers throughout the province. Almost 1 200 healthcare workers from both the private and public health sectors in the province have tested positive for the coronavirus, and 25 have died. Premier Oscar Mabuyane says they are doing all they can to safeguard frontline workers. “Health Care Workers remain our priority for access to PPE. Over the coming weeks we will be receiving more PPE from our private partners which will distribute to our frontline (workers). We are also heightening reinforcements on our frontlines by availing more funds for the hiring of more healthcare personnel and fully utilizing the expertise of the SANDF Medical Personnel and Cuban Doctors to save lives,” explains Mabuyane. Mabuyane says the supply of beds in the province is increasing. “Our fight against the virus continues on all fronts. There is significant progress on the refurbishment of health infrastructure facilities. I personally visited some of them myself in Joe Gqabi. Thus far 22 infrastructure refurbishment projects have been completed across the five districts and the two metros and these give us 480 beds and 65 high care beds,” he adds. Last week, Mabuyane expressed concern about the increasing number of COVID-19 related fatalities in the province. “In the month of July, we have suffered 432 casualties from COVID-19 related illnesses. This takes the total number of casualties in our province to 831 we wish families of the deceased strength and healing during this time. We want the families of the deceased to note that we appreciate the sacrifice they are making in complying with COVID-19 regulations.” The province is the third hardest hit in the country. Eastern Cape government updates on coronavirus statistics in the province. Opposition parties have also called for Section 100 to be envoked in the province to help deal with the pandemic. In the video below, Eastern Cape government gives an update on coronavirus statistics in the province: 