The African National Congress (ANC) in Gauteng will meet with Premier David Makhura to discuss a controversial tender that allegedly involves Presidential Spokesperson, Khusela Diko. A date for the meeting with the premier has not been disclosed. But the provincial ANC leadership says it has summoned Diko, Health MEC Dr Bandile Masuku and his wife, who is a Johannesburg Councillor, Loyiso Masuku to a meeting today over the awarding of a R124 million tender, awarded to Royal Bhaca – a company owned by Diko’s husband. Diko and Masuku’s wife are said to be close friends. In the video below, SABC’s Samkele Maseko weighs in on the matter:  There are concerns that Diko might have used her position to garner the multi-million rand tender for the company. The business deal with the Gauteng Health Department is said to have been for the provision of Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs). The move comes amid mounting calls for Diko’s suspension. Earlier EFF leader Julius Malema urged President Cyril Ramaphosa to sack her, saying he need to lead by example. Below, Malema elaborates on his call:  Civil organisation, Sanco, in Gauteng has also called for an investigation into the provincial Health Department’s awarding of tenders. The Democratic Alliance in Johannesburg has also called for a probe into the matter. The DA’s Jack Bloom says it is outrageous that anyone could seek to profit from the COVID-19 crisis in Gauteng, while health staff complain about a lack of PPE. “I think it is critically important that there is no cover up of the alleged corruption in the Gauteng health department with PPE contracts. Its hundreds of millions of rands and it’s utterly that people could seek to make profits out of the misery of others especially since we are trying to fight this COVID19 pandemic. I really think there should be a full investigation, this time with consequences,” he says. The Special Investigating Unit has said it is already investigating COVID-19 related procurements. ‘Above board’ Over the weekend, Diko and her husband King Madzikane the second Thandisizwe Diko released separate statement. The King says his contract with the department was cancelled and he did not receive any form of payment. This is after concerns were raised that this could create a potential conflict of interest. Diko, who is also an ANC Gauteng Executive Committee member, has denied using her potential influence to help her husband. 