The Commission of Inquiry into State Capture in Johannesburg will on Tuesday hear testimony from former Correctional Services Commissioner Linda Mti and the suspended Pretoria Chief Magistrate Desmond Nair. Mti will respond to former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi’s allegations that he received bribes for awarding lucrative tenders to the company’s subsidiaries for the upgrading of fencing and access control systems. Mti was fingered by Agrizzi as having been instrumental in Bosasa landing hundreds of millions of rands in contracts. In return, the company allegedly built Mti a lavish home and paid him bribes on a monthly basis. Mti is currently facing charges together with his accuser for corruption, money laundering and fraud. Nair is expected to refute former Bosasa employee Richard Le Roux’s allegation that he accepted R200 000 worth of security installations from the company. Nair, who is currently on suspension, insists that he paid a fixed maximum contract price for the work done at his home and says he has never presided over any matter related to Bosasa. Commission will hear Bosasa related testimony from Mr Linda Mti: fomer Correctional Services Commissioner, and Protea Chief Magistrate: Desmond Nair on Tuesday 21 July 2020 at 10:00#StateCaptureInquiry pic.twitter.com/GAr6hEKefH — State Capture Commission (@StateCaptureCom) July 20, 2020  Mokonyane’s testimony On Monday, the commission heard former Environmental Affairs Minister Nomvula Mokonyane’s testimony. She denied all allegations made against her by Agrizzi labelling them defamatory, contradictory and desperate. In 2019, Agrizzi while testifying at the inquiry accused the former Minister of having received monthly bribes from Bosasa. He also claimed that Bosasa installed CCTV cameras and other security equipment at her home and funded her Christmas parties and funerals. Mokonyane says that there was nothing untoward about Bosasa doing charity work at her home township of Kagiso, Gauteng and across the country. She adds: “A state-owned entity Telkom was one of those who sponsored our national conference and many other businesses that are included here and this has been something that has been done not only for the ANC, not only for me not only for members of the ANC but this has been part of the democratic operations in this country where businesses have chosen to support those who they feel would pursue their interests and would reconstruct and rebuild this country the support that was given and the relationship had no strings attached. ” Mokonyane denied ever receiving food and alcohol from Bosasa for her family Christmas celebrations. “When you run a command centre for an event like Nomvula being the head of organising for the ANC, you then have to know when is the food coming, when will the marshals eat, has the food been picked up at the pickup points of the buses, all those things and not necessarily you but because this person acts like in this particular way he thinks I am the alpha and omega of the ANC never there are structures and systems to deal with these matters.” Mokonyane also said she never says she never acquired the services of Bosasa for security at her home saying this was the responsibility of the state and her late husband. In the video below, Mokonyane testifies at State Capture Inquiry:  Below is the analysis of Mokonyane’s testimony: 