The African National Congress (ANC) caucus in the City of Cape Town has condemned the spate of land grabs in the Western Cape metro. This after a group of people invaded a vacant piece of land in Mfuleni near Khayelitsha. “We are disturbed by these developments as some of these pieces of land are earmarked for development and building houses. As much as we acknowledge the rights of people to protest, we are against the criminal elements that tarnish the struggle for the destitute families who are forever waiting for their houses and have a right to shelter,” ANC Caucus Spokesperson Fiona Abrahams says. The City of Cape Town says it is battling to clear continued illegal land grabs and invasions on the Cape Flats. On Monday, law enforcement moved into a massive area stretching several kilometres in Mfuleni close to Khayelitsha to demolish structures that have been erected over the weekend. Mayoral Committee Member for Safety and Security JP Smith says they’ve been fighting a spate of land invasions for more than a week in areas such as Khayelitsha and Mfuleni. Smith says, “We are currently having operations across the city, we are trying to deal with those invasions as we seem as well orchestrated our teams are on the ground. We are getting assistance from the South African Police Service and also there specialised units which is Public Order police we are also getting some assistance from the South African Defence Force. City of Cape Town’s Anti Land Invasion Unit receives criticism:  The Anti-Land Invasion Unit assisted by local law enforcement, the SAPS and the army demolished numerous shacks, as running battles have been ongoing for several weeks. Mayoral Committee Member for Human Settlements Malusi Booi says, “While there are regulations under COVID-19 lockdown to prevent evictions, some misunderstand it, while others abuse it for personal gain.” Booi says large portions of land are lost due to the continuous invasions. “Whatever we’re doing, we’re doing it within the parameters of the regulations and the law, even under the current lockdown regulations. They’re very clear, illegal invasions are not allowed. People can’t do illegal invasions. This is not an eviction as you can see this site is very clear, people are invading and we are acting on invasion and we are very decisive because all these parcels we are losing we are losing many houses that we are going to build. We have projects that will give us more than 16 000 units,” says Booi.  