Human Settlements Minister Lindiwe Sisulu is due to meet with Cape Town Mayor Dan Plato to discuss how to address the human settlement challenges in Cape Town. There is concern about sporadic incidents of land invasions and evictions in the metro which have sometimes turned violent over the past couple of weeks. Recently in Kraaifontein hundreds of people tried to invade the land in one of the latest incidents that took place. Meanwhile, Minister  Sisulu has met with her counterparts from the police, agriculture, and public works to discuss concerns around the recent violent protests in Cape Town. In a statement, Sisulu says they have agreed to devise a plan to deal with some of the challenges, including restoring law and order and providing housing. She says government is concerned about the spate of invasions and evictions in the city. On Monday, the Cape Coloured People’s Congress (CCPC) also took to the streets to protest against the lack of services in Coloured communities. MEDIA ALERT Today, I will meet with the Executive Mayor of the City of Cape Town, Cllr Dan Plato to consolidate a plan aimed at addressing human settlements challenges currently facing the city. pic.twitter.com/NsRXXnMszS — Lindiwe Sisulu (@LindiweSisuluSA) July 28, 2020  Human Settlements Minister Lindiwe Sisulu is due to meet with Cape Town Mayor Dan Plato today to consolidate a plan… Posted by SABC News Western Cape on Monday, July 27, 2020 Human Settlements Minister Lindiwe Sisulu has met with her counterparts from the police, agriculture and public works to… Posted by SABC News Western Cape on Monday, July 27, 2020 City of Cape Town’s Anti Land Invasion Unit receives criticism R4.6 billion sets aside to upgrade over 300 informal settlements The Minister, Sisulu, says R4.6 billion has been allocated to provinces and metro municipalities to upgrade more than 300 informal settlements. The Department says there is a need to improve living conditions in informal settlements in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. Human Settlements Deputy Director-General Joseph Leshabane says, “As things stand, there are over 300 informal settlements that are planned to be upgraded – that means proper roads have to be put in, land security for occupants, but also services such as sanitation. We are doing this in partnership with those communities and the local municipality. It is the first time that we have a dedicated grant for informal settlements and that will grow going forward, given the huge prevalence of informal settlements across the country.” The provinces and metros respectively receive R4.2 billion in the current budget. Sisulu added that the department would introduce COVID-19 impact relief measures, including zero penalties for estate agencies for late submission of audited statements until the end of October. As well as rearrangements for loan repayment for affordable housing lenders and rental relief to tenants in affordable rental housing. Human Settlements, Water and Sanitation @The_DHS @DWS_RSA Minister @LindiweSisuluSA says R4.6 billion has been allocated to provinces and metro municipalities to upgrade over 300 informal settlements #housing https://t.co/SAbySiZEbT pic.twitter.com/cEwiH5dBqI — @SAgovnews (@SAgovnews) July 22, 2020  #DHSBudgetVote2020 I am happy to report that together with Provinces and Municipalities, we have completed the delivery of over 69 600 new houses and over 51 000 serviced stands – and in the process, developed more than 1100 new settlements and neighborhoods. — Lindiwe Sisulu (@LindiweSisuluSA) July 21, 2020  The Minister @LindiweSisuluSA will deliver the Budget Vote Speeches for 2020/2021 Financial Year. The first speech and debate on Vote 33: @The_DHS is scheduled for tomorrow, 21 July 2020 while the Vote 41: @DWS_RSA is scheduled for Thursday, 23 July 2020. pic.twitter.com/jp9N9l8Tt0 — Human Settlements (@The_DHS) July 20, 2020  In the video below land invasions near Khayelitsha are in the spotlight 