The Federation of School Governing Bodies says it supports a phased reopening of schools across the country. They say as long as the necessary precautions are taken to protect learners and staff from the coronavirus, schools can open. Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga is expected to address the nation Tuesday afternoon on the reopening of schools across the country. This follows a special meeting of the Council of Education Ministers on Monday, which included the Minister together with the nine provincial education MECs. There are suggestions that schools operate at 50% capacity. The federations CEO Paul Colditz says Motshekga also needs to reassure parents that it is safe for their children to return. Colditz says they will be engaging with Motshekga before her address. He says the federation believes its the responsibility of the department of basic education and the provincial departments to provide schools with the necessary ppe’s ensuring the safety of learners but also teachers at the school. He says: “We have requested the minister to engage with the medical experts on exactly what the impact of the virus will be on children so that every parent will be able to make an informed decision. A phased reopening must be made possible. We are meeting the minister this afternoon before her public announcements.”  Awaiting clarity Some civil society organisations say they are keenly awaiting clarity from the Minister of Basic Education on how schools will be prepared to open amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Schools have been closed for more than six weeks as government battles to contain the virus. To get schools ready to operate during the lockdown, precautions must be implemented. Motheo Brodie, from Section 27, says they have concerns that the minister must clarify. “We are hoping for clarity regarding learners on feeding schemes. Also more about PPE for learners and staff and vitally the rollout of sanitation for more than 4000 that only have pit toilets and lack running water.” In the video below, is a report on concerns that rural schools may not be ready for reopening: 