The Rwandan government will allow limited movement of people and restricted opening of businesses including restaurants and hotels from next Monday as it starts to ease its coronavirus lockdown. Movement between provinces in the central African country will still not be allowed, while schools will also remain shut until September, according to a government statement released late on Thursday. “All resumed services must adhere to health guidelines … mask wearing and social distancing,” it said. Rwanda alongside neighbouring Uganda implemented some of the strictest lockdown measures in Africa to help slow the spread of the coronavirus, including shuttering all but the most essential businesses. As of Thursday Rwanda had 243 confirmed cases of COVID-19 and no deaths. Under the loosened lockdown restaurants will be allowed to open up to 7 pm. Hotels will also be allowed to open, but only guests will be allowed on the premises in the evenings. Bars and churches will remain shut. Tourism is a major source of income for Rwanda, with visitors especially drawn to see its mountain gorillas. Below is a graphic of the coronavirus in Africa:  Zimbabwe extends coronavirus lockdown again, announces $720 mln stimulus Zimbabwe’s President Emmerson Mnangagwa extended a nationwide lockdown to fight the new coronavirus by two more weeks and announced a $720 million stimulus package for distressed companies, most of which will be allowed to reopen on Monday. The southern African nation first announced a three-week lockdown in March and then extended that, prior to the latest extension. The lockdown has shuttered an economy struggling with acute shortages of foreign currency, food, electricity and medicines. Informal markets – where more than 80% of Zimbabweans earn their living – will remain shut, while big businesses will reopen under supervision. Mnangagwa said public gatherings of more than 50 people and the use of public taxis remain suspended, while schools will remain closed. He said the 18 billion Zimbabwe dollar stimulus package ($720 million), which is just more than a quarter of this year’s national budget, would also benefit smaller businesses which are hardest hit by the lockdown. Mnangagwa did not say how the package would be funded. “The package is proportionate to the disruption the virus has caused to the national economy,” he said in a televised speech. Health workers would not be taxed for the next six months to boost their earnings, the president said. Zimbabwe has recorded 40 cases of the new coronavirus and four deaths so far. 