Labour Minister Thulas Nxesi has instructed employers to incur the cost of complying with COVID-19 as more businesses return to work from Monday. Briefing the media in Pretoria, on Sunday, Nxesi announced basic measures that employers must take before reopening companies. Some of the measures compel businesses to carry out risk assessments at their workplace and the screening of all workers to reduce the spread of COVID-19. Nxesi has ordered all employers to provide their employees with Personal Protective Equipment in light of the coronavirus pandemic. This comes as many prepare to return to work on Monday. Nxesi says it is compulsory for all people entering a particular workplace to be subjected to temperature screening. He was briefing the media in Pretoria on the Level 4 national lockdown regulations. “Workers must wear masks at work. Employers must require members of the public entering the workplace to wear masks. Employers must provide each employee free of charge with at least two cloth masks to wear whilst at work or commuting.  They must be suitable for washing and drying. Ultimately, the employer remains responsible for maintenance and upkeep of employees.” In the video below, Labour Minister Thulas Nxesi briefs the media on the Level 4 lockdown regulations:  Employers to screen workers Workplaces have been tasked with screening cases of COVID-19 as scores of workers prepare to return. People are advised to stay away from work if they experience any of the symptoms of the virus. Nxesi says employers will need to screen their workers for symptoms of COVID-19 as and when they report for work. “Employers must screen workers for symptoms of COVID-19 at the time that they report for work; namely fever cough, sore throat, redness of eyes or shortness of breath or difficulty in breathing, body aches, loss of smell or loss of taste, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, fatigue and weakness or tiredness. Workers should immediately inform their employer if they experience any symptoms whilst at work.” Nxesi says employers must provide paid sick leave to anyone displaying COVID-19 symptoms. “In returning to work it cannot be business as usual. Employers must take measures to protect the health and safety of everyone in their workplace. This includes employees of contractors, self-employed persons and volunteers … they must inform employees that if they have COVID-19 symptoms they must not be at work and grant paid sick leave or apply for COVID-19 benefits.” Full Media Briefing by the Department of Labour:  In the video below, Political analyst Professor Steven Friedman discusses the Level 4 lockdown:  Below is an infographic on the Level 4 lockdown regulations: 