The Department of Correctional Services says that is has recorded 10 new confirmed cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) at their correctional facilities, bringing the national total number to 388. The bulk of the new cases were reported in the Western Cape, with four inmates and four officials testing positive for the virus. Gauteng and the Northern Cape both recorded one positive case. The Eastern Cape leads with the number of positive COVID-19 cases in correctional facilities with 235 cases, 181 of those being inmates. Two people have died from the virus in the province’s facilities. The province is followed by the Western Cape, which has recorded 130 cases, 103 of those being officials. The province’s facility has also recorded two deaths. The KwaZulu-Natal has the least number of cases, recording one positive case – an official, and recording no deaths. The department says that 92 people have recovered from the virus. Below is an infographic on the confirmed COVID-19 cases at Correctional facilities: COVID-19 CASES IN SOUTH AFRICAN PRISONS WESTERN CAPE LIMPOPO GAUTENG EASTERN CAPE 27 0 9 181 103 2 7 1 54 PRISONERS OFFICIALS Source: The Department of Correctional Services AS AT  16 MAY 2020 59 30 1 1 1 RECOVERIES CONFIRMED CASES | 388 DEATHS 2 2 HEAD OFFICE KZN NORTHERN CAPE 0 0 3 1 0 0 sabcnews.com |  SABC News channel | SABC Radio news @SABCNEWS @SABCNEWS sabcnews.com |  SABC News channel | SABC Radio news (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); Below is the statement on COVID-19 cases at Correctional Service facilities.  Inspection of COVID-19 isolation and quarantine sites The National Commissioner of Correctional Services, Arthur Fraser Tuesday conducted an inspection of COVID-19 isolation and quarantine sites in Estcourt in the KwaZulu-Natal Midlands. Fraser’s visit formed part of supporting all prisons to ensure that standard operating procedures to prevent the spread of COVID-19 are in place. The department said it is putting measures in place should a need arise to place more inmates in isolation or to quarantine COVID-19 positive inmates in hospitals. “As we continue to receive increasing numbers of COVID-19, it remains important that our isolation sites and quarantine sites are always ready hence we continue our task to check their state of readiness and also the staff to work on those sites,” Correctional Services Spokesperson, Singabakho Nxumalo said. The Correctional Services Department sought to assure the public that dangerous criminals in jail for crimes like murder or rape would not be released to lessen overcrowding in prisons and decrease the risk of COVID-19 transmission. Nxumalo says low-risk inmates who are closer to completing their sentence, as well as those eligible for parole, would be considered. In the video below, South Africans react to the release of prisoners to curb spread of COVID-19: 