President Cyril Ramaphosa says there is no tension between scientists and politicians on how to curb the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. Earlier this week, a war of words erupted between Health Minister Zweli Mkhize and Chief Executive of the South African Medical Research Council (SAMRC), Professor Glenda Grey. She accused government of not following advice from experts in the battle against coronavirus. Grey, who also chairs the research sub-committee of a team of 50 experts, says some of the Level-4 lockdown rules were not grounded in science. However, speaking exclusively to SABC News in Johannesburg, President Ramaphosa said government takes the advice of experts seriously. “Scientists like politicians they differ and they have diverse views. Diverse views are to be welcomed. We have said that the medical advisory committee has been advising government extremely well and we welcome everybody’s input on that medical advisory committee, including the recent ructions that we had which have now been solved. That is now behind us and they are now united in giving us advise. There is really no issue between scientists and politicians.” Restaurants Ramaphosa also touched on issues plaguing the hospitality industry. As the country moves to Level-3 lockdown, more people will be heading back to work as more sectors will be open for business. But sit-in dining at restaurants and hotel stays will still be prohibited. The lockdown rules have led to massive losses in revenue and thousands of job losses in the hospitality sector, with many more projected. President Ramaphosa says government and the National Coronavirus Command Council (NCCC) are engaged in consultations with the industry in a bid to find solutions. “The restaurants have only come to us just recently and we are giving considerations to their views. We met with them so we are listening to all that. So the way we are managing the COVID-19 is that we are listening to all, we don’t want to impose our view. So, careful management is what underpins everything that we are doing.” Below are some of the measures that will be in place during Level-3 lockdown:  sabcnews.com | SABC News channel | SABC Radio news SA COVID-19 LOCKDOWN LEVEL 3 TRANSPORT RESTRICTIONS Bus services, taxi services, e-hailing and private motor vehicles may operate at all times of the day, with limitations on vehicle capacity and stringent hygiene requirements. No inter-provincial movement of people, except for transportation of goods and exceptional circumstances e.g.funerals. MOVEMENT RESTRICTIONS SECTORS PERMITTED Moderate virus spread, with moderate ﻿readiness Source: South African government LEVEL 3 Mining  Open cast mines at 100% capacity  All other mines at 50% All agriculture  Wool Wine Horticulture Export agriculture Floriculture Horticulture Related processing SANRAL construction and maintenance Global business services Transnet at 100% Forestry  Pulp   Paper Take away restaurants and online food delivery Clothing retail  Liquor retail within restricted hours LEVEL 3 LEVEL 3 Licensing and permitting services, deeds officesand other government services designated bythe Minister of Public Service andAdministration Stationery, personal electronics and office equipment production, and retail Books and educational products E commerce and delivery services Cement and steel Clothing and textiles manufacturingat 50% capacity Automotive manufacturing Chemicals Bottling Machinery and equipment CEMENT (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); With the number of infections rising by the day, President Ramaphosa maintains that his administration is now better placed to flatten the curve than what it was when the lockdown was imposed two months ago. He urged South Africans to endure the lockdown regulations for a little while and adapt to new ways of life like the wearing of masks and constant washing of hands. Ramaphosa warns that while June 1 will see the easing of the regulations with churches now being allowed to operate, law enforcement agencies will be unrelenting to anyone found violating COVID-19 rules as articulated by government.