The KwaDukuza Municipality will hold a formal hearing with its traffic officers who were involved in a scuffle with a father and his young child at a residential complex at Shaka’s Rock on the KwaZulu-Natal north coast. On Monday, a video showing a screaming child being pulled away from his father went viral. The father is then seen grabbing the child from the officers and asking his wife to call the police. The video went viral on social media sparking outrage among members of the public. It is believed that officers may have been acting in terms of enforcing lockdown regulations. KwaDukuza municipal spokesperson Sipho Mkhize says, “We do not condone any action that was taken in that video. The council has said a formal hearing must be held with the officers who were at the scene to ascertain from them what is their recollection of events in all of this, because we have to treat these officers in accordance with labour relations.” WARNING: Visuals maybe be offensive to some viewers The video is of the confrontation between traffic police and a resident of Shaka’s Rock:   sabcnews.com | SABC News channel | SABC Radio news SA COVID-19 LOCKDOWN LEVEL 4 TRANSPORT RESTRICTIONS Bus services, taxi services, e-hailing and private motor vehicles may operate at all times of the day, with limitations on vehicle capacity and stringent hygiene requirements. MOVEMENT RESTRICTIONS SECTORS PERMITTED South Africa begins easing  the COVID-19 lockdown on 1 May 2020.  LEVEL 4 Source: South African government LEVEL 4 Mining  Open cast mines at 100% capacity  All other mines at 50% All agriculture  Horticulture Export agriculture Wool Wine Floriculture horticulture related processing Formal waste recycling (glass, plastic, paper and metal) Global business services for export ﻿markets Postal and telecommunications services Forestry, pulp paper Food retail stores already permitted to be open  may sell full line of products within existing stock All financial and professional services Fibre optic and IT services All essential services Export LEVEL 4 Walking, jogging and cycling allowed between 6AM-9AM, within 5KM of your residence, and not in a group. Wearing of  a mask in public is compulsory. Every person is confined to his or her place of residence from 8PM - 5AM. No local or inter-provincial movement of people, except: •	Those returning for alert     level 4 operations •	Once-off return to home •	To perform an essential       or permitted service •	Obtain services allowed to operate •	Buy permitted goods •	Move children, as allowed •	Transportation of goods  •	Exceptional circumstances    e.g.funerals •	Walk, ﻿run or cycle between     6AM-9AM (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));