The South African Human Rights Commission (SAHRC ) says vulnerable groups of the population such as children, senior citizens and people with disabilities seemed to be the most affected by the outbreak of the COVID-19. The SAHRC briefed the Portfolio Committee on Justice and Correctional Services virtually on Friday in Parliament on its strategic plan for 2020/2021 financial year. Siyasanga Giyose from the commission told the committee that because of the status in society of these groupings, there is a need for special attention to be given to them during this time.

“In terms of the cross-cutting issues, they will always have a particular impact on marginalised and vulnerable groups including children, older persons, people with disabilities and migrants. So we have to look out on issues of discrimination and how these groups can be catered for.” Social Relief Distress Grants On Friday, the South African Social Security Agency (SASSA) started paying out some of the R350 Special COVID-19 Social Relief Distress Grants. New applicants can send a message to the SASSA WhatsApp number on 082 046 8553, send an SMS to *134*7737# – or e-mail SRD@sassa.gov.za. Applicants must be over 18 and not be receiving any other government grants or the National Student Financial Aid Scheme allowance. Some three million South Africans have already applied for the grant, which will be paid for the next six months. In the video below, SASSA CEO, Busisiwe Memela-Khambula unpacks the grant:  INFOGRAPHIC: SA’s COVID-19 stimulus package:  Your Name Your Last Name email@email.com +1 304 104201 SA COVID-19 ECONOMIC STIMULUS sabcnews.com | SABC News channel | SABC Radio news President Cyril Ramaphosa has announced a R500 billion economic stimulus package to help South Africa cope with the COVID-19 pandemic. WHERE DID THE MONEY COME FROM? R500 BILLION HIGHLIGHTS WHAT WILL THE MONEY BE USED FOR? Unemployment Insurance Fund Institutions include:  World Bank  International Monetary Fund  BRICS New Development Bank  African Development Bank International Institutions Existing Budget Around R130 billion repatriated from current budget. Healthcare Relief of  social distress Support to companies Municipalities Protective gear for heath workers Community screening and testing Ventilators Increase child support grant by R500 for 6 months  COVID-19 social distress grant of R350 for 6 months Distribution of food parcels to 250 000 homes in within two weeks New model for food assistance through vouchers and cash transfers Emergency water Sanitation of public transport Food and shelter for the homeless. Loan guarantee scheme Tax ﻿relief Unemployment Insurance Fund R500 billion amounts to 10% of the Gross Domestic Product. Began in mid-March. Included tax relief, release of disaster relief funds, emergency procurement, wage support through Unemployment Insurance Fund and funding to small businesses. Aims to stabilise the economy, address ﻿extreme decline in supply and demand and protect jobs. Social relief and economic support package of R500 billion. Economic strategy to drive recovery  as the country emerges from COVID-19 pandemic. 3rd Phase 1st Phase 2nd Phase (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); 