Doctor Clarence Mini has been hailed as a champion for health in South Africa having worked extensively in support of  HIV/Aids initiatives. Home Affairs Minister Aaron Motsoaledi has paid tribute to Mini. He was speaking in Fourways, Johannesburg, at the funeral service of Dr Mini, the former chairperson of the Medical Schemes Council.  Mini died of coronavirus-related complications on May 11 at the age of 69. Motsoaledi who is former Health Minister worked closely with Mini. He spoke of Mini’s contribution in  resolving the issue of medical schemes targeting black doctors when investigating potential fraud. “Comrade Clarence came to me and said Minister please wait a bit, give that one to me because you put me in that position to regulate. Allow me the opportunity to deal with this one and of course I readily agreed because it was him and within no time he put together a commission lead by Advocate Ngcuka and as you know a lot was uncovered during the course of that commission that was one of his main contributions,” says Motsoaledi.  True patriot Health Minister Zweli Mkhize has urged South Africans to unite in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. Mkhize has described Mini as a true patriot who believed that South Africa had a bright future. Mkhize also says Mini’s death should encourage South Africans to work together. In the video below Mkhize calls on South Africans to unite in the fight against COVID-19  Precautionary tale of seriousness of COVID-19 Former National Prosecutions Head Bulelani Ngcuka says that the passing of Dr Clarence Mini should serves as a cautionary tale of the seriousness of the COVID-19 pandemic. “His whole life was to promote public health; he sacrificed so much and having survived exile and everything else that was thrown his way. He finally succumbed to this invisible virus. If a doctor of his stature who had access to all of the resources that the state can offer cannot beat this virus, how about lowly people like ourselves,” says Ngcuka.         