Macsteel has denied unilaterally deciding to reduce the salaries of its employees by 20%. In a statement released on Friday, Macsteel said they respect the rights of their employees “and we continue to be in negotiations with them and with the unions.” This followed a strike by the National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa (Numsa) at the steel supplier earlier this week. The union also accused the Macsteel of failing to consult the employees in their decision to reduce the salaries of employees by 20% with effect from this month. The union says the company has cited the effects of the coronavirus. Numsa Spokesperson Phakamile Hlubi-Majola said the company has failed to make an application to the Unemployment Insurance Fund (UIF) Temporary Employee Relief Scheme (TERS) so that workers can get help. However, the steel supplier has denied this. “Macsteel informed staff of the emergency measures that it had decided to implement in the efforts to safeguard the sustainability of the business. These measures included a 20% salary reduction for the months of May, June and July 2020,” reads the statement in part. Macsteel Group CEO Mike Benfield said, “The process we have followed in implementing the 20% salary reduction has been transparent as we have consistently communicated each step of the process with our staff and entered into discussions around them.” Benfield also said they have in fact applied for the UIF TERS. “We have applied for the Covid-19 UIF TERS, our staff will be paid the UIF support amount. We expect that this will compensate the majority of staff fully for the 20% reduction.” INFOGRAPHIC: SA’s stimulus package: Your Name Your Last Name email@email.com +1 304 104201 SA COVID-19 ECONOMIC STIMULUS sabcnews.com | SABC News channel | SABC Radio news President Cyril Ramaphosa has announced a R500 billion economic stimulus package to help South Africa cope with the COVID-19 pandemic. WHERE DID THE MONEY COME FROM? R500 BILLION HIGHLIGHTS WHAT WILL THE MONEY BE USED FOR? Unemployment Insurance Fund Institutions include:  World Bank  International Monetary Fund  BRICS New Development Bank  African Development Bank International Institutions Existing Budget Around R130 billion repatriated from current budget. Healthcare Relief of  social distress Support to companies Municipalities Protective gear for heath workers Community screening and testing Ventilators Increase child support grant by R500 for 6 months  COVID-19 social distress grant of R350 for 6 months Distribution of food parcels to 250 000 homes in within two weeks New model for food assistance through vouchers and cash transfers Emergency water Sanitation of public transport Food and shelter for the homeless. Loan guarantee scheme Tax ﻿relief Unemployment Insurance Fund R500 billion amounts to 10% of the Gross Domestic Product. Began in mid-March. Included tax relief, release of disaster relief funds, emergency procurement, wage support through Unemployment Insurance Fund and funding to small businesses. Aims to stabilise the economy, address ﻿extreme decline in supply and demand and protect jobs. Social relief and economic support package of R500 billion. Economic strategy to drive recovery  as the country emerges from COVID-19 pandemic. 3rd Phase 1st Phase 2nd Phase (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));