Minister of Employment and Labour Thulas Nxesi says that his department is working with the Department of Health to ensure that employers prioritise lockdown regulations and the health of workers. More people are expected to return to work on Monday as part of the easing down of the lockdown from Level 5 to 4 as of May 1. Nxesi says employers are expected to take measures in terms of the Occupational Health and Safety Act to protect employees and prevent the spread of the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. They are to adhere to the following regulations: • Inform workers with COVID-19 symptoms not to come to work and also grant them paid leave or allow them to apply for COVID-19 TERS benefits • Appoint a manager to address the concerns of workers and their representatives • Take measures to minimise contact between workers and between workers and the public • Minimise the number of workers at work for a shift • Provide workers with information on COVID-19 and how to stop the transmission of the virus • Report any COVID-19 diagnosis to the Departments of Health and Labour to investigate the cause • Support all tracing measures initiated by the Department of Health •  The rate of compliance by employers increased from 50% to over 60% over the lockdown Chief Inspector Tibor Szana at the Department of Labour gives safety guidelines and technical aspects:  Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) • Employers are expected to provide workers with PPEs and keep up to date with recommendations from agencies such as the National Institute for Communicable Diseases and the National Institute for Occupational Health. • Labour Inspectors are empowered to promote, monitor and enforce compliance In the video below, Labour Analyst Mamokgethi Molopyane discusses requirements for employers to provide workers with PPEs:  UIF and TERS payments The Labour department says that it has had the task of repurposing the Unemployment Insurance Fund (UIF) to facilitate payments to those affected by the COVID-19 lay-offs. The department introduced the TERS (Temporary Employer/Employee Relief Scheme) benefits system for the COVID-19. Nxesi says that due to an increase in claims, the TERS has had to restructure the UIF claims system. The changes implemented include change from walk-in claims for individuals to an online application process that caters for a lot of people at a time. Call Centre enquiries will be available for enquiries. The labour department says that it engaged with social partners, labour and businesses. A Memorandum of Agreements was consequently signed with employers and bargaining councils. Changes implemented Nxesi says that since the changes were implemented, the labour department has registered the following victories: • Bulk disbursements of COVID-19 TERS benefits reached 98 000 claimants amounting to R5.3 billion • A further R2.4 billion TERS benefits for 29 000 claimants expected to be cleared on Monday • SARS validated 87% of outstanding claims for 481 000 claimants amounting to R1.9 billion. Validated claims expected to be paid next week • Ordinary UIF for 65 000 claimants to continue uninterrupted • R13.8 billion of investments freed to strengthen the liquidity of the fund • Interfile offers to facilitate the UIF SMS service for the department at no cost • The biggest challenge for the TERS is employers that refuse to assist employees The Compensation Fund has established a Crisis Management Committee in response to COVID-19 and developed the COVID-19 response plan to focus on occupational injuries and disease, medical benefits, rehabilitation and account payable. The fund will also be using an online application process backed by a Call Centre. Below is Minister Thulas Nxesi full statement. 