Alcohol may be sold for home consumption only under strict conditions, on specified days and for limited hours. The sale of tobacco products will remain prohibited. The President says the ban is due to the health risks associated with smoking. President Cyril  Ramaphosa made the announcement on Sunday night. Government’s decision on this comes amid an industry outcry over the ban on the sale of tobacco products, with cigarette traders saying the ban is empowering illegal tobacco traders.  “Places such as restaurants, bars, taverns accept for the collection or delivery of food. Accommodation and domestic air travel accept for business travel which will be phased in on dates to be announced conferences events, entertainment and sporting facilities, personal care services including hairdressing and beauty services.” Below is an infographic of what will be permitted during level 3 lockdown:  INFOGRPHIC: Some restrictions will be in place at every level of the lockdown  Curfew on movement People will still be able to leave their homes to buy goods or obtain services, including medical care. Exercise will now be permitted any time during the day, however not in groups. The 8 pm and 5am curfew has been lifted. All gatherings will remain prohibited, except for funerals with no more than 50 people and work meetings. Below is the President’s full speech: P Protection of workers Ramaphosa says the return to work of employees must be done in a manner that avoids and reduces risk of infection. “Companies will need to put in place sanitary and social distancing measures and facilities; they will need to screen workers on arrival each day, quarantine those who may be infected and make arrangements for them to be tested. They also need to assist with contact tracing if employees test positive. Because of their vulnerability, all staff who are older than 60 years of age and those who suffer from underlying conditions such as heart disease, diabetes, chronic respiratory disease and cancer should ideally stay at home.” Hotspots  Health workers praised President Ramaphosa thanked public servants, especially those in the front line in the fight against COVID-19. He says the safety of all workers, including public servants, is a matter of concern. The President promised to provide adequate personal protection equipment to ensure the safety of all workers.  