An e-hailing taxi driver in Port Elizabeth, in the Eastern Cape, has shot and wounded two alleged robbers. The suspects aged 20 and 21 allegedly tried to rob the 47-year-old e-hail taxi driver while he was picking up a client in Newton Park. Police spokesperson Priscilla Naidu says the driver was picking up a client when the suspects got into the back of his taxi. One of the men allegedly tried to strangle him with a piece of rope. The suspects who are said to be from Shauderville suffered gunshot wounds to the chest and arms and were rushed to hospital, where they were later arrested. They are expected to appear in court soon on charges of attempted robbery and attempted murder.   In March metered taxi and e-hailing drivers in Port Elizabeth appealed to the Minister of Transport Fikile Mbalula to relax the transport curfews put in place during the COVID-19 lockdown. Many drivers raised concerns, saying commuters who are essential workers were left stranded after 9am, since public transport only operated between 5am and 9am in the morning and 4pm and 8pm in the evenings.  Level 4 public transport regulations H3: Double click to edit The body's immune system produces antibodies to defend against the virus/bacteria 2 Public Transport Public transport services to operate from 05h00 until 19h00 Loading capacity at 70% for minibus taxisLoading capacity at 50% for e-hailing and metered taxis Persons not wearing masks may not use public transport - includes minibus-taxis, buses, metered taxis, e-hailing services, charter and shuttle services. Road-based Transport Only essential cargo will be allowed to move across our land borders.  Cross-border road passenger movement remains prohibited. The body's immune system produces antibodies to defend against the virus/bacteria 2 Public Transport Gautrain Gautrain operations will be gradually re-introduced in all rail-based services, covering 8 of their 9 stations.  Trains will operate from: 05h00 to 12h00 15h00 to 20h00 Road-Based Transport The ban on passenger vessels and cruise liners remains in place.  Only vessels bringing in cargo allowed at ﻿ports 4 Aviation The ban on both domestic and international passenger flights remains in place.  Repatriation flights either bringing back South Africans stranded in foreign countries or transporting foreign nationals to their home countries are allowed.  Mining and agricultural sector to allow limited movement of aircrafts, either to transport essential workers by chartered aircrafts or to spray pesticides on crops Buses 70% loading capacity for buses 50% loading capacity for shuttle and chauffeur services The body's immune system produces antibodies to defend against the virus/bacteria 2 Rail Full resumption of freight rail.  Commuter rail will resume operations gradually on an incremental basis - limited services with strict measures. Metrorail No immediate resumption of Metrorail commuter services (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));  