The Democratic Alliance (DA) is expected to file court papers on Thursday to challenge the rationality of the night curfew, the ban on e-commerce and the restriction on exercise hours under the Level 4 lockdown regulations. DA interim leader, John Steenhuisen, says that these restrictions are in place due to the lack of oversight on the decisions taken by the National Command Council during the State of Disaster. The DA is calling for an immediate easing of the national lockdown, saying it will force government to take the hard decisions that this entails via the courts. “It is our opinion that is shared by many South Africans that all three of these decisions should be immediately reversed as there are no rational justifications for a military-enforced curfew, a restriction on e-commerce business and a limited three-hour window for exercise. But it must also be said that these irrational decisions are taken by the National Command Council because they are acting with no checks and balances. The State of Disaster which we are currently under is governed by the Disaster Management Act, and it makes zero provision for Parliamentary oversight which means that the secretive National Command Council actually answers to no one”, says Steenhuisen.   The infographic below details punishable offences under Level 4 lockdown:  Level 4 COVID-19 punishable rules and regulations For the duration of the national state of disaster, not obliging to the following regulations is an offence and is, on conviction, liable to a fine or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding six months. There is to be no assembly, concourse or procession of more than 100 persons. Not confining to place of residence from 20H00 until 05H00 daily (except persons with a permit) The sale, dispensing and distribution of liquor is not allowed. This also includes the transportation of liquor Non-adherence to curfew Alcohol Leaving their residence for none of the below Convening gatherings perform an essential or permitted service, as allowed in Level 4;  go to work wherewith the relevant permit  buy permitted goods;  obtain services that are allowed to operate  walk, run or cycle between the hours of 06H00 to 09H00, within a 5km radius Business Compliance Operating a business under level 4 without ensuring that there is a designated COVID -19 compliance officer. Business not taking precautions Business must make necessary arrangements for staff in the establishment, this includes - 1. Sanitary and social distancing measures and facilities at the entrance and exit to the workplace; 3. Screening facilities and systems; 4. Attendance -record system and infrastructure: 5. Testing facilities (for establishments with more than 500 employees); 6. Staff rotational arrangements Retailers not protecting customers Manufacturing operating without adherence Manufacturing Factories may scale up to full employment, except where otherwise indicated, and subject to strict health protocols. Any retail outlet without arrangements for customers or members of the public, including sanitation and social distancing measures. Not wearing a mask No person will be allowed to use any form of public transport, or enter a building, place or premises, if they do not wear a cloth face mask or a homemade item that covers the nose and mouth when in a public place, or another appropriate item to cover the nose and mouth. Avoiding tracing of COVID-19 cases Any person who has been confirmed to having contracted COVID -19, or who is suspected of having contracted COVID -19 may not refuse to- (a) Submit to a medical examination (b) Be ﻿admitted to a health establishment or a quarantine or isolation site  (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); Political parties at loggerheads over Level 4 lockdown The display of unity among opposition parties when the lockdown was initially announced is fast dissipating. Just two weeks into Level 4, parties are openly at loggerheads with each other and the National Command Council. Some want the lockdown fully suspended, while others are calling for a return to the more stringent Level 5. A deepening economic crisis and a growing death toll are two realities behind the division among political leaders. In the video below, differing opinion on the lockdown from political parties: 