The South Africa Social Security Agency (Sassa) has called on beneficiaries not to rush to cash their grants on Monday. Spokesperson Paseka Letsatsi says only old age and disability grants will be paid out on Monday and Tuesday, while child grants will be paid out on Wednesday. Letsatsi says they have separated the days to allow for social distancing. He has also reminded beneficiaries that they will not lose their money if they do not withdraw it on the first day. “We would want to appeal to everybody to give older people and people with disabilities a chance to access their money tomorrow and Tuesday therefore they must not come and stand in the queues because the money will not be in their accounts. But they will get their money on the 6th, however, we still want to inform beneficiaries they don’t have to get their on the first day, they can get their grant at any given moment the money will still be safe in their accounts.” Pick ‘n Pay will open its stores early on Monday and Tuesday to accommodate pensioners and Sassa beneficiaries. Pick ‘n Pay says the popular pensioners’ shopping hour – normally on a Wednesday – has now been moved to Monday and Tuesday. Stores will open an hour earlier from 7am – 8am Minister Zulu provides more clarity on Sassa grant payments Social Development Minister Lindiwe Zulu provided more information on the paying of grants and the unemployment grant during the COVID-19 pandemic. She says unemployed South Africans can apply for the R350 grant by sending a WhatsApp message to 0600 123 456 and selecting Sassa or an e-mail to SRD@sassa.gov.za. Unemployed South Africans will receive this grant for six months. President Cyril Ramaphosa announced earlier this month as part of a social relief and economic support package of R500 billion. “In addition, a special COVID-19 Social Relief of Distress grant of R350 a month for the next 6 months will be paid to individuals who are currently unemployed and do not receive any other form of social grant or UIF payment. The Department of Social Development will issue the requirements needed to access and apply for this funding,” said Ramaphosa. In the video below Minister Lindiwe Zulu outlines how social grants will be distributed:  