The MEC for Health in Mpumalanga, Sasekani Manzini, launched the first Electronic Queue Control System. The new system aims to reduce the time patients spend in queues and also help detect shortcomings. The new system is already functioning at the Themba Hospital. The patients are being called through an electronic system depending on who arrived first. They are given numbers on arrival and wait for their turn to receive medical attention. However, they have expressed mixed feelings in the new system. Some of the patients believe that the new system will enhance social distancing. But, others say it is a question of wait and see. “To keep our distance, for our 1-meter away as instructed by the Presidents and as we are waiting for our files, everyone would wait to hear their name before they can go through. I think it’s going to be a problem because I got here at 5 and got attended to at 8. Perhaps, we should give it time.” Mpumalanga’s MEC for Health, Sasekani Manzini, says the new system to minimise long queues at health facilities is expected to be rolled out at other health facilities in the province. “We are able to monitor from the provincial office how long it takes to come to our facility from the admission until they get their medication. So, that’s why we are here today to make sure that we minimise (long queues) in our facilities in terms of the system that we are launching today.” Manzini added that the Driekoppies clinic in Nkomazi, which has been closed after health workers tested positive for COVID-19 will be opened in a week’s time. At the moment, the community is being assisted at a mobile clinic. “Because it’s a small clinic the employee was in contact with everyone hence it was impossible to continue using the clinic. We have fumigated the clinic. All workers are quarantined. They will come back after being tested and if they are negative they would come back to the facility. But for now, we have put a mobile clinic to service the people of Driekoppies.” The province has more than 90 positive cases of the coronavirus, and more than 50 recoveries. No deaths have been reported. Below are the latest COVID-19 numbers in SA:  Free State  North West  Gauteng  Mpumalanga  Northern Cape Eastern Cape  Limpopo  KwaZulu-Natal Western Cape COVID-19 STATISTICS IN SOUTH AFRICA sabcnews.com |  SABC News channel | SABC Radio news SOURCE: Department of Health  & ﻿National Institute of Communicable Diseases  CASES GAUTENG WESTERN CAPE KWAZULU-NATAL EASTERN CAPE FREE STATE LIMPOPO NORTH WEST MPUMALANGA NORTHERN CAPE 2453 1693 2324 184 121 77 95 37 UNALLOCATED 0 12153 AS AT 21 May 2020 50 3 0 1 DEATHS 6 235 27 46 1 CONFIRMED CASES | 19 137 DEATHS | 369 TESTS CONDUCTED |  525 433 RECOVERIES | 8950 CLOSED CASES | 9319 (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); 