Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane says that her office has received approximately 158 COVID-19 related complaints since the start of the national lockdown. She was speaking at a virtual parliamentary briefing on the annual performance plan for the current financial year. Mkhwebane says some of the cases involve South Africans who were stranded either in African countries or abroad. “We have received up to 158 new COVID-19 cases at the head office alone during this time. These included those South African citizens who were stranded in Egypt after having paid their tickets back home. There was also a case involving South Africa of students who found themselves in similar predicaments in Russia and they needed to be brought back home. We will continue to work as long as the lockdown lasts whilst observing strict safety practices.” The Public Protector’s office says it has begun the process of procuring Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) of more than 450 000 for the coronavirus pandemic in preparation for staff to return to work during Level 4 of the lockdown. The office says the bulk of employees were working from home since the start of the lockdown. Acting Chief Financial Officer Tshiamo Senosi says part of the internal function of the Public Protector’s office is to regularly provide training to its investigators. “And then Protective Personal Equipment, in terms of COVID-19, we are requesting about 451 000. And then training in terms of employees, we calculated at 1.5% in terms of the total compensation; because we need to train our investigators and senior investigators on a regular basis.”  Labour Minister Thulas Nxesi instructed employers at the beginning of May to supply employees with PPEs and to also incur the cost of complying with COVID-19 regulations. The Minister said that employers are compelled to carry out business risk assessments at their workplace and the screening of all workers to reduce the spread of COVID-19. “Workers must wear masks at work. Employers must require members of the public entering the workplace to wear masks. Employers must provide each employee free of charge with at least two cloth masks to wear whilst at work or commuting.  They must be suitable for washing and drying. Ultimately, the employer remains responsible for the maintenance and upkeep of employees,” Nxesi said. In the video below, Minister Thulas Nxesi provides guidelines for workplaces amid the COVID-19 outbreak.   