President Cyril Ramaphosa is to address the nation Wednesday evening at around 20h30 about government’s measures to combat the coronavirus. The Presidency says in a statement that the address follows meetings of the Cabinet and the Coronavirus Command Council. You can watch the President’s address on the SABC News channel, SABC 2, and live streamed on the SABC News website and YouTube channel. You can also listen in on SABC Radio stations. This comes amid growing calls in some quarters for further relaxation of the lockdown regulations that some critics say are causing widespread damage to the economy. However, others say the country has to place the lives of citizens first and the health of the economy second. South Africa has 11 350 cases of the virus and 206 deaths. More than 4 300 people have recovered from the COVID-19 disease. These are South Africa’s latest COVID-19 statistics as at 12 May: Meanwhile, Retail Analyst Chris Gilmour says with the necessary COVID-19 protocols in place, government need not turn into the fashion police. Gilmour says he sees no reason for specification over the type of clothing retailers are permitted to sell. The Trade Ministry has gazetted specific directions of the type of clothing, footwear and bedding which may be sold by retailers during Level 4 of the lockdown. The expanded retail range has received the green light to go on sale from Wednesday. Gilmour says the move presents small but necessary relief to the retail industry which has been decimated by the lockdown. “So you have to have the social distancing protocols in place, and you have to have the hygiene protocols in place and there can be no skimping on that, there can be no limitations on that, they really have to be of the highest quality standards. So as long as you can do that, I think a lot of this strange micro-managing would not be necessary, you as I said, who on earth is gonna police this.” Trade and Industry Minister Ebrahim Patel says the expanded retail range can go on sale from Wednesday as part of Level-4 regulations. Patel further indicated that vehicle sales and servicing are also permissible from today. The government gazette under the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Competition gives specific direction of the type of clothing, footwear and bedding which may be sold by retailers during Alert Level 4 of the regulations. “Government has given the green light for the sale of bedding, baby and children’s clothing, schoolwear, maternity wear, as well as footwear, among others.  The Ministry of Trade, Industry and Competition has further granted permission for Phase one of the reopening of the motor vehicle industry.  Vehicle outlets may now have 30% of their staff on-site, while conducting home delivery of serviced vehicles. Dealerships will operate at 100% capacity from the 8th of June,” says Patel.