The South African Social Security Agency (Sassa) says it has already received more than 750 000 applications for the R350 unemployment grant since the process was implemented on Monday. Applications for the grant can be sent via the new Sassa Whatsapp number 082 046 8553, email or sms to the number *134*7737#. Applicants must be over 18 and not be receiving any of the government’s grants, they are also required to produce their ID number, banking details, cellphone number and residential address for the application process. The application process takes roughly three days for Sassa to respond. Sassa CEO Busisiwe Memela says people should not upload documents when applying. Memela says, “People are loading copies of their ID,  we’re linked already to Home Affairs so there is no need to send copies of your ID and others are loading copies of their bank statements which we don’t need until such time we know that you qualify or not. Besides that we wouldn’t need your bank statement in any case because all we will need is your bank account but not your statement.” “People are also loading proof of address which is not necessary, as long as in your application process you indicate what your address is,” added Memela. In the video below, the Sassa spokesperson unpacks government’s social relief grant:  The grant was announced by President Cyril Ramaphosa amid the nationwide lockdown as part of the R500 billion economic and social relief measures in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Sassa spokesperson Paseka Letsatsi outlined the process to receive the grant. Letsatsi says, “When they make an application, we do take them through a particular process to give us an outcome and demonstrate whether the person is receiving any source of income and so on.” “When you make an application, there are certain questions that we ask you and as you fill up the information, you [we] are able to determine whether you qualify or not. It is a very tight process and we focus on those who are in need,” explained Letsatsi.  sabcnews.com | SABC News channel | SABC Radio news COVID-19 R350 SOCIAL RELIEF GRANT TRANSPORT RESTRICTIONS Bus services, taxi services, e-hailing and private motor vehicles may operate at all times of the day, with limitations on vehicle capacity and stringent hygiene requirements. MOVEMENT RESTRICTIONS LEVEL 4 Source: South African government LEVEL 4 Walking, jogging and cycling allowed between 6AM-9AM, within 5KM of your residence, and not in a group. Wearing of  a mask in public is compulsory. Every person is confined to his or her place of residence from 8PM - 5AM. No local or inter-provincial movement of people, except: •	Those returning for alert     level 4 operations •	Once-off return to home •	To perform an essential       or permitted service •	Obtain services allowed to operate •	Buy permitted goods •	Move children, as allowed •	Transportation of goods  •	Exceptional circumstances    e.g.funerals •	Walk, ﻿run or cycle between     6AM-9AM 2 1 3 How to apply for the six-month long grant for the unemployed Who can apply? Information needed for application Apply via... The unemployed Must be over 18 years old People not receiving social grants People not receiving UIF People not receiving NSFAS stipend ID Number Name and surname as stated on ID Banking details Contact details Proof of residential address Send WhatsApp message to 082 046 8553 Send e-mail to SRD@sassa.gov.za (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));