The movement of people between provinces as part of level-4 lockdown regulations has officially come to an end after one week. Many travellers took advantage before midnight to return to provinces where they work or live. In Limpopo and Gauteng, health officials screened those that were travelling, while traffic authorities and the police ensured compliance with the lockdown regulations. A queue marshall at the Polokwane Long Distance Taxi rank directs travellers to board a taxi destined for Johannesburg. This is as the final day for the seven day grace period announced by government last week, to allow for once-off inter-provincial travel came to an end. On the N1 near the Nyl Plaza outside Mokopane, travellers say they observed less traffic in the morning. “The trip was nice, and I am from GP. I am going towards Bushbuckridge. There is no traffic anyway but we have been stopped on the road. They have checked if we wear the mask and trip was good. It is empty on the road as you can see.” “I think today is the last day for travelling, if I am not mistaken. I am from Boksburg in Johannesburg. I am going to Limpopo, Nkowankowa.” Some travellers, who were still on the road in the evening coming from Gauteng, say they are satisfied with screening measures at roadblocks. “It was okay, I just like how the government is handling this whole situation to stop us and do the screening like it is going to save lives I guess. But it is delaying the traffic but it is good. The traffic is good, in terms of the scanning, people that are travelling outside the province so, from Gauteng.” SABC News’ Mcebisi Ngqina is reporting from the Tsitsikamma Toll Plaza:  Meanwhile, in Gauteng, traffic was brought to a halt at the Carousel Toll Plaza. Traffic officials were out in numbers to ensure that motorists adhere to the regulations. The majority of those who were travelling were going back to work next week and school-going children. They had been stuck in Limpopo since the start of the lockdown in March. Gauteng traffic spokesperson, Obed Sibasa, says despite the high volumes, many motorists have complied with the regulations. “One can count more than 800 vehicles per hour through the toll plaza, but it is hectic as it moves from Limpopo to Gauteng. More people are coming to our province. Now looking at compliance, quite a number of cars we have stopped and 90% are complying with regard to your 2m social distancing. It’s being observed. Sanitising of motor vehicles, some motorists even travelling with sanitisers in inside the cars and face masks.” Policing at all entry points to the Eastern Cape has been beefed up. Roadblocks have been set up to ensure travellers comply with lockdown Level 4 regulations.  No travel between provinces after Thursday Over 450 vehicles have been issued with notices of being unroadworthy, while more than 20 were impounded on Mpumalanga roads since the ease of the lockdown to Level 4. The Department of Community Safety, Security and Liaison says most of these vehicles had defects and were not roadworthy. A spokesperson for the Department Moeti Mmusi says over 19 000 vehicles were stopped during the lockdown period. Mmusi has also reminded people that they won’t be permitted to travel between provinces without permits after Thursday. “They have managed to stop 19 200 vehicles and 24 of these have been discontinued due to defects and with regard to travelling to today and any other day, the MEC has called on motorists to ensure that they obey the rules.” SABC News Patricia Visagie reports:  Transport regulations under Level 4 lockdown:  Loading… (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));