Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (CoGTA) Minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma has assured South Africans that the implementation of Level-3 alert of the nationwide lockdown from 1 June has been determined through scientific advice from experts. Dlamini-Zuma says this is intended to re-open economic activity in order to have a viable economy. She was addressing the media in Pretoria, following President Cyril Ramaphosa’s announcement last week that the country will enter Level-3. “These next phases and of Level-3, allow us to open all the productive areas of our economy, all, be it to a moderate degree in some hot spots areas. This risk level, thanks to the employ of a risk-adjusted approach, allows us to maintain the delicate balancing act between one, saving lives and the other saving the livelihoods of South Africans. ” More details of Level-3 lockdown regulations below:   Hotspots Dlamini-Zuma says the country has potential hotspots for COVID-19. These include Cape Town, Johannesburg and Tshwane. The minister has warned that the hotspots could be subject to tougher restrictions if the situation requires it. “Given our socio-economic conditions we’ve had to ease restrictions. Thus in the employ of a risk-adjusted strategy, we’ve subjected each province, district or metro…to its own level of the risk adjustment system. This will assist us in mounting targeted interventions, especially in the deployment of our limited resources.” Alcohol Dlamini-Zuma says alcohol will be permitted to be sold from Monday to Thursday between 9am and 5pm.  It will not be allowed to be sold on Fridays, Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays. She says e-commerce sales of alcohol will also be permitted during these times. Dlamini Zuma has reiterated that gyms, restaurants and bars will remain closed during Level-3. She says people who go out in public must wear masks and that sanitisers must be widely available at public facilities and that there will be limits on the number of people allowed at workplaces. Hotels will also remain closed unless they are accommodating tourists who have been confined or travelling business people. Schools and exercising The minister also says learners who go to school in another province will be allowed to travel to that province for school. Dlamini-Zuma also confirmed that exercise will be allowed all day during Level-3 of the lockdown but that no group exercising is permitted. People out exercising must wear masks. Below is the full briefing:  Below are some measures which will be in place during Level: 3:  sabcnews.com | SABC News channel | SABC Radio news SA COVID-19 LOCKDOWN LEVEL 3 TRANSPORT RESTRICTIONS Bus services, taxi services, e-hailing and private motor vehicles may operate at all times of the day, with limitations on vehicle capacity and stringent hygiene requirements. No inter-provincial movement of people, except for transportation of goods and exceptional circumstances e.g.funerals. MOVEMENT RESTRICTIONS SECTORS PERMITTED Moderate virus spread, with moderate ﻿readiness Source: South African government LEVEL 3 Mining  Open cast mines at 100% capacity  All other mines at 50% All agriculture  Wool Wine Horticulture Export agriculture Floriculture Horticulture Related processing SANRAL construction and maintenance Global business services Transnet at 100% Forestry  Pulp   Paper Take away restaurants and online food delivery Clothing retail  Liquor retail within restricted hours LEVEL 3 LEVEL 3 Licensing and permitting services, deeds officesand other government services designated bythe Minister of Public Service andAdministration Stationery, personal electronics and office equipment production, and retail Books and educational products E commerce and delivery services Cement and steel Clothing and textiles manufacturingat 50% capacity Automotive manufacturing Chemicals Bottling Machinery and equipment CEMENT (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));