President Cyril Ramaphosa will on Friday chair a virtual meeting of the National Economic Development and Labour Council (NEDLAC) that will discuss the prospect of moving most of South Africa to COVID-19 Alert Level 3. In his address to the nation on Wednesday, the President indicated that the country could implement Level 3 before the end of the month. However, he said some badly affected areas may still require stricter levels of lockdown. Ramaphosa also acknowledged the heavy toll that the coronavirus lockdown is having on the lives of ordinary South Africans, emphasising that the lockdown was necessary to prevent an even larger number of infections and deaths. The meeting which will include government, labour, community and business constituencies will be the start of widespread consultation between government and various sectors of society and the economy on the more extensive reopening of the economy and the lifting of restrictions on movement. Below is the speech President Cyril Ramaphosa delivered on Wednesday:
R Reopening the economy Economist Dawie Roodt says the government should rapidly reprioritise the reopening of the economy as unemployment and poverty could cause more damage to the country than the coronavirus pandemic. He says the National Coronavirus Command Council, which is the government’s main decision-making body, is not acting in the best interest of the people. Roodt says, “We are totally mismanaging the economy at the moment. I’ve done some calculations and I’m pretty sure that more people will die because of poverty than people that will die because of this virus. What we are currently doing we are putting the economy into lockdown, it will increase poverty, it will increase unemployment and the sooner we open up this economy the better. We have certain ministers that all of a sudden has got a lot of power and they simply do not want to let go.” Business Unity South Africa responds to the President’s speech: Political parties react to Ramaphosa’s address Reacting to President Wednesday night’s announcement on the nationwide lockdown, some political parties expressed confusion. The Democratic Alliance’s Interim leader, John Steenhuisen says, “We have no idea what is going to be the next move. I think this is really concerning for South Africans. It looks like we on this stage till end of May and continues to be in this economy.” The Freedom Front Plus Leader Dr. Pieter Groenewald says, “South Africa must ensure that we unlock the economy or else the price that we going to pay will be more than the price of lives that will die out of the COV-19 virus.” The African Transformation Movement National Executive Committee member, Sibusiso Mncwabe says, “We are a little bit concerned that it is not clear when the country is really moving fully to stage three because seemingly we have to wait till the end of May.” The DA, FF Plus and lobby group AfriForum announce intentions to file court papers over a number of issues including forcing the government to lift the lockdown entirely to allow full economic activity to start and the constitutionality of aspects of the Disaster Management Act. AfriForum says government has lost focus in the fight against the coronavirus:  President Ramaphosa says aggrieved parties have the constitutional right to take legal action against government for its national lockdown regulations. He says he can’t prevent anyone from approaching the country’s courts. Speaking in the Eastern Cape during a visit to the Nelson Mandela Bay metro as part of his provincial progress monitoring progress, on the fight against COVID-19, Ramaphosa said the lockdown had required much sacrifice from South Africans.  INFOGRAPHIC: Level 3 lockdown: sabcnews.com | SABC News channel | SABC Radio news SA COVID-19 LOCKDOWN LEVEL 3 TRANSPORT RESTRICTIONS Bus services, taxi services, e-hailing and private motor vehicles may operate at all times of the day, with limitations on vehicle capacity and stringent hygiene requirements. No inter-provincial movement of people, except for transportation of goods and exceptional circumstances e.g.funerals. MOVEMENT RESTRICTIONS SECTORS PERMITTED Moderate virus spread, with moderate ﻿readiness Source: South African government LEVEL 3 Mining  Open cast mines at 100% capacity  All other mines at 50% All agriculture  Wool Wine Horticulture Export agriculture Floriculture Horticulture Related processing SANRAL construction and maintenance Global business services Transnet at 100% Forestry  Pulp   Paper Take away restaurants and online food delivery Clothing retail  Liquor retail within restricted hours LEVEL 3 LEVEL 3 Licensing and permitting services, deeds officesand other government services designated bythe Minister of Public Service andAdministration Stationery, personal electronics and office equipment production, and retail Books and educational products E commerce and delivery services Cement and steel Clothing and textiles manufacturingat 50% capacity Automotive manufacturing Chemicals Bottling Machinery and equipment CEMENT (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));