Political parties have expressed confusion about Wednesday night’s announcement on the nationwide lockdown by President Cyril Ramaphosa. The president told South Africans that consultations will take place on how Level 3 of the lockdown will be implemented, possibly at the end of May.  Something that many say is more confusing than making sense. INFOGRAPHIC: COVID-19 lockdown level 3: sabcnews.com | SABC News channel | SABC Radio news SA COVID-19 LOCKDOWN LEVEL 3 TRANSPORT RESTRICTIONS Bus services, taxi services, e-hailing and private motor vehicles may operate at all times of the day, with limitations on vehicle capacity and stringent hygiene requirements. No inter-provincial movement of people, except for transportation of goods and exceptional circumstances e.g.funerals. MOVEMENT RESTRICTIONS SECTORS PERMITTED Moderate virus spread, with moderate ﻿readiness Source: South African government LEVEL 3 Mining  Open cast mines at 100% capacity  All other mines at 50% All agriculture  Wool Wine Horticulture Export agriculture Floriculture Horticulture Related processing SANRAL construction and maintenance Global business services Transnet at 100% Forestry  Pulp   Paper Take away restaurants and online food delivery Clothing retail  Liquor retail within restricted hours LEVEL 3 LEVEL 3 Licensing and permitting services, deeds officesand other government services designated bythe Minister of Public Service andAdministration Stationery, personal electronics and office equipment production, and retail Books and educational products E commerce and delivery services Cement and steel Clothing and textiles manufacturingat 50% capacity Automotive manufacturing Chemicals Bottling Machinery and equipment CEMENT (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); The Democratic Alliance’s Interim Leader, John Steenhuisen says, “We have no idea what is going to be the next move. I think this is really concerning for South Africans. Looks like we on this stage till end May and continues to be in this economy” The Freedom Front Plus Leader Dr. Pieter Groenewald says “South Africa must ensure that we unlock the economy or else the price that we going to pay will be more than the price of lives that will die out of the COV-19 virus. ” ‘This is confusing’ The African Transformation Movement National Executive Committee member, Sibusiso Mncwabe says this is confusing. Mncwabe says, “We are a little bit concerned that it is not clear when the country is really moving fully to stage three because seemingly we have to wait till the end of May.” Inkatha Freedom Party Spokesperson, Mkhuleko Hlengwa says, “This is not a beauty contest or a popularity contest on which minister is gaining more airtime than the other. Here what is important is consistency and certainty.” COPE wants gradual re-opening of economy Congress of the People National Spokesperson, Dennis Bloem says they want a gradual re-opening of the economy. Bloem says, “We have always maintained that the easing of the lockdown regulations must be gradual. We don’t expect that the president will announce the suspension of the lockdown.” The African National Congress (ANC) says this is a learning process, hence the view from the president that there were some mistakes in handling this pandemic. ANC Spokesperson, Pule Mabe says, “There’s going to be a lot of teething problems, learning curves and all of that. And we should appreciate that ministers at work they from time to time report on the progress to the public.” Until the end of May, South Africa will still be under level four of the lockdown Lockdown could be eased to Level 3 President Cyril Ramaphosa says government is going into consultations regarding the likelihood of easing the lockdown from Level-4 to Level-3, possibly by the end of May. However, Ramaphosa says some badly affected areas may still require stricter levels of lockdown. He has acknowledged the heavy toll that the coronavirus lockdown is having on the lives of ordinary South Africans but he says the lockdown was necessary to prevent an even larger number of infections and deaths. “This coronavirus is taking a heavy toll not only on the health of our people, but also on our people’s ability to earn a living, to feed themselves and their families, to learn and to develop, and to enjoy many of the basic freedoms that we daily take for granted,” says Ramaphosa. In the video below, President Cyril Ramaphosa addresses the nation: