The total number of COVID-19 cases in South Africa has increased to 7 572 from 7 220 on Monday.  The Western Cape remains the province with the highest number of cases. There are 3 609 cases in the province. In a statement, the Department of Health also confirmed 10 more COVID-19 related deaths. “Seven from the Western Cape, one from Eastern Cape, one from KwaZulu-Natal and one from Gauteng. This brings the total deaths nationally to 148. We wish to express our condolences to the families of the deceased and thank the health care workers who treated these patients.” More than 260 000 COVID-19 tests have been conducted in South Africa.   COVID-19 cases at Correctional Services facilities The Department of Correctional Services has six new  COVID-19 cases taking the total number of cases in DCS to 166. In a statement, the department says the new cases are East London inmates. It says health care practitioners are already on-site providing an array of health services at the facility. “They have been provided with adequate Personal Protection Equipment and they are attending to the cases and are monitoring the situation so that those in need of urgent medical attention can be attended to.” The statement has also confirmed two death cases of inmates with underlying comorbid conditions at East London Centre. “We send our sincere condolences to their families. We continue to work with the Department of Health, adhering to all their guidelines in fighting against this pandemic.” The department continues to record a significant increase in the number of recoveries following the recovery of 39 inmates in East London, taking the total number of recoveries to 60 cases. ” The recoveries are a clear indication of the effectiveness of the containment and treatment pillar of the DCS’ COVID-19 Disaster Management Response Strategy. Under the strategy, there is rapid identification of laboratory-confirmed cases and inmates who test positive are isolated and have access to quality healthcare that enable their recovery.” Below are the Department of Correctional Services COVID-19 statistics :   Loading… (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); 