Workers at the Phoenix Community Healthcare Centre, north of Durban, are continuing to appeal to their employer to test them for COVID-19. This is the latest in a series of requests from healthcare workers. They were allegedly exposed to a patient that has the virus. The National Union of Public Service and Allied Workers maintains that workers want the facility to be properly decontaminated. They say they all want to be tested for COVID-19, adding that some workers were exposed to a patient who allegedly tested positive for the virus. Earlier this week, workers downed tools, but thereafter returned to work. On Sunday, police informed workers that they could not protest as that is against the lockdown regulations. 10 things to keep nurses safe during COVID-19: SABC News has outlined 10 recommendations for nurses to follow to keep safe during COVID-19 and while they are nursing COVID-19 infected patients. The recommendations outlined are based on those of official sources, including the Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and the World Health Organization (WHO). Types of Nurses SABC News has outlined the different types of nurses registered with the South Africa Nursing Council (SANC) and also the different types of areas of specilisation. Forensic Nurse A Professional Nurse who has an additional qualification in Forensic Nursing. They specialise in the application of forensic science and Clinical Nursing Practice. Emergency Nurse A Professional Nurse specialising in involving nursing care for patients of all ages in the emergency and or critical phase of their illness or injury. Community Health Nursing Is a Professional Nurse who has specialised in measuring the health status and determining the health needs of communities and groups. They focus on communities, populations, groups and families. Nurse Educator A Nurse Educator is a Professional Nurse with an additional qualification in Nursing Education and is registered as such with the SA Nursing Council. It is a specialist field that focuses on education and training students. Mental Health Nurse A Professional Nurse trained as a mental health care nurse specialist and able to provide prescribed mental health care, treatment and rehabilitation services. Such nurses hold an additional qualification in Mental Health Nursing in accordance with the Mental Health Care Act No.17 of 2002. Oncology Nurse Oncology and Palliative Nursing is a speciality whereby nurses care for people who are at risk for developing cancer, patients diagnosed with cancer, patients receiving treatment for cancer, patients in need of supportive and palliative care, serious illness, cancer survivors and their families/caregivers. A distinct area of specialised nursing practice addressing the prevention, promotion and management of the health and wellbeing of individuals with kidney disease. Nephrology Nurse Specialist Ophthalmic Nurse Specialist Is a specialist field focuses on comprehensive eye care for the promotioni of eye health and the prevention of visual impairment and blindness. They have an additional qualification in Ophthalmic Nursing and registered with the SANC Critical Nurse Specialist (Adult) A specialist nurse that takes care of patients with life-threatening illnesses and injuries and it occurs within a continuum from the scene of initial incident or onset of critical illness such as home through stabilisation, transfer/transporation, emergency and intensive care up to and including transfer to care in lower acuity levels/step down units Advanced Practice Nurses A midwife specialist has advanced expertise in Midwifery, holds an additional qualification in Midwifery and is registered as such with SANC. They focus on maternal health, reproductive health (including genetic counselling) and neonatal/child health Midwife Specialist: Occupational Health Nurse Specialist Is a specialist field that provides for and delivers health and safety programmes and services to workers and worker populations in their place of employment Paediatric Nurse Specialist Is a Professional Nurse who has obtained a post graduate diploma qualification in child nursing science Orthopaedic Nurse Specialist Is a Specialist General Nurse with an additional qualification in Orthopaedic Nursing Science registered with SANC. It is a specialist field of neuromuscular-skeletal and vascular functioning focusing on varied clinical or subfields for adult and paediatric conditions Perioperative Nurse Specialist Is a Professional Nurse and Midwife who has obtained a postgraduate diploma in the perioperative field. They provide care during pre, intra and post-operative periods Primary Care Nurse Specialist: A Professional Nurse with an additional qualification in Primary Care Nursing and registered by SANC. Provides direct care to patients with all types of illnesses and ailments offering the first level of care that patients receive. *Source South African Nursing Council sabcnews.com l SABC News channel l SABC Radio news (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));