The Democratic Alliance (DA) Interim Leader, John Steenhuisen has called on President Cyril Ramaphosa to update the nation on the continued lockdown of the country relating to COVID-19. Steenhuisen says it has been more than two weeks since Ramaphosa last addressed the nation on the issue, when he announced that the country would move to alert level 4 of the lockdown. He wants Ramaphosa to address the nation at least once a week and also take questions from the media during the briefing. The DA also wants the President to disclose the scientific data the National Coronavirus Command Council, which Ramaphosa chairs, is using to justify the continued lockdown. Steenhuisen says they have increasingly expressed their objection to the continued lockdown. Last week, Steenhuisen slammed the lockdown, saying it is doing more harm than the virus it’s meant to curb. In the video below, John Steenhuisen speaks about the lockdown:  Minister of Finance, Tito Mboweni, hit back in a tweet, advising Steenhuisen to “stay in his lane”.    Cosatu joins calls for lockdown to be eased The Congress of South African Trade Unions (Cosatu) is the latest organisation to call for the easing of the lockdown. The labour federation is pleading with government to ease the lockdown as soon as possible to avoid the economy from collapsing. Cosatu say the coronavirus outbreak has put extra pressure on an already strained economy. It wants workers to return to work as soon as possible saying South Africans cannot survive on social grant relief and food parcels alone. In the video below, the federation’s Bheki Ntshalintshali speaks about their call:  Below is an infographic of COVID-19 level 4 lockdown: sabcnews.com | SABC News channel | SABC Radio news SA COVID-19 LOCKDOWN LEVEL 4 TRANSPORT RESTRICTIONS Bus services, taxi services, e-hailing and private motor vehicles may operate at all times of the day, with limitations on vehicle capacity and stringent hygiene requirements. MOVEMENT RESTRICTIONS SECTORS PERMITTED South Africa begins easing  the COVID-19 lockdown on 1 May 2020.  LEVEL 4 Source: South African government LEVEL 4 Mining  Open cast mines at 100% capacity  All other mines at 50% All agriculture  Horticulture Export agriculture Wool Wine Floriculture horticulture related processing Formal waste recycling (glass, plastic, paper and metal) Global business services for export ﻿markets Postal and telecommunications services Forestry, pulp paper Food retail stores already permitted to be open  may sell full line of products within existing stock All financial and professional services Fibre optic and IT services All essential services Export LEVEL 4 Walking, jogging and cycling allowed between 6AM-9AM, within 5KM of your residence, and not in a group. Wearing of  a mask in public is compulsory. Every person is confined to his or her place of residence from 8PM - 5AM. No local or inter-provincial movement of people, except: •	Those returning for alert     level 4 operations •	Once-off return to home •	To perform an essential       or permitted service •	Obtain services allowed to operate •	Buy permitted goods •	Move children, as allowed •	Transportation of goods  •	Exceptional circumstances    e.g.funerals •	Walk, ﻿run or cycle between     6AM-9AM (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));