Lawyers representing Collins Khosa’s family, who was allegedly killed by members of the South African National Defence Force (SANDF) at his home in Johannesburg, have rejected the findings clearing the soldiers of responsibility for his death. The SANDF found that the soldiers cannot be held liable for this death due to there being no link to his death and the injuries he sustained following their actions. Khosa (40) died over the Easter Weekend in the Alexandra township in Johannesburg following an assault, allegedly by members of the SANDF. The board of inquiry also found that Khosa and his brother-in-law had undermined two female soldiers – saying the attitude of the two men was provocative. Judgment in Collins Khosa’s killing in Alexandra:  The attorney representing the Khosa family Wikus Steyl has described the findings as incorrect. “That report is absolutely ridiculous. One of the glaring points is that the SANDF blames gender inequality and that Collins and his brother in law provoked the officers. But that was never disputed in any of the affidavits answering or application and does not accord with any of the statements provided by the family or police or JMPD…” “This investigation was a sham, the findings are absolutely incorrect and we reject it outright. A previous investigation found that Collins died from blunt force trauma. The only altercation that Collins was involved in was with the members of the SANDF. He certainly did not beat himself to death, he was attacked by soldiers and they caused the death by blunt force trauma,” adds Steyl. Since the start of the national lockdown there have been reports of SANDF and police using excessive force. Last month, Police Minister, Bheki Cele, said his department investigated 26 cases related to police brutality across the country. In Soweto, Ekurhuleni and Alexandra there have been fatalities allegedly connected to the police or SANDF. The graph below provides details of how you can report brutality against security personnel:    (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));