“Those teachers that are above 60, that they believe they’ve got comorbidities and they cannot come to work, they can work from home. We will support them, but we’ll put substitute teachers that will provide that kind of assistance that is needed. This is very important to us because we don’t want educators that might have sicknesses that may infect our learners to be within our school premises.” Infographic | Back to School Plan:  Department of Basic Education’s proposed plans for learner safety amid COVID - 19 COVID-19 | SA's BACK TO SCHOOL PLAN Social Distancing No hugging No handshaking Direct contact must be avoided Only two learners per desk Cloth masks to be worn by learners and teachers at all times Extra classes should be arranged in small groups that maintain social distancing. No mass public events No sports matches  No choral practice  No festivals  No eisteddfods Classroom arrangements Limit movement of learners between classes  Sanitise hands on entering of classrooms  Sanitise classrooms prior to the start of school day  No clustering of desks in classrooms BACK TO SCHOOL Everyone must sanitise before entering vehicle Distance between learners  must be managed Masks must be worn throughout the school day Transport Screening and testing Screening of learners and educators to be done at the reopening of schools, starting with Grades 7 and 12. Temperature checks to be administered. Learners or staff members who present with raised temperatures to be considered for isolation and testing. @SABCNEWS sabcnews.com |  SABC News channel | SABC Radio news Source: Department of Basic Education (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); Confusion over reopening of schools The Federation of Governing Bodies of South African Schools (FEDSAS) says it has been left with more questions than answers after the Minister of Basic Education announced this week that Grade 7 and 12 learners will return to school. FEDSAS CEO Paul Colditz says they have been flooded with questions from schools, as well as concerned parents seeking clarity on whether all the necessary requirements have been met for a safe return to school. Colditz says, “I’m afraid the announcement left us with more questions than answers. That’s quite apparent from all the questions we’ve been getting from schools all over the country. The fact is that the grassroots level, we know and have experienced it that the majority of provinces are not ready to open on the 1st, or to receive learners and teachers in an environment which is as far as humanly possible able to guarantee their safety, well-being and health.” In the video below, a concerned mother and her Grade 12 son react to the re-opening of schools: 