Police Minister Bheki Cele will hold a virtual media briefing on Thursday to give an update on the progress police made in enforcing the COVID-19 Disaster Management Lockdown Regulations. This follows ministerial visits to provinces to assess enforcement and compliance to the regulations. It is expected that Cele will also touch on the firearm amnesty period that is set to expire at the end of this month. Certain areas may be moved back to Level 5 Last week, Cele said the National Command Council may decide to move certain areas back to Level 5 of the lockdown. Cele and KwaZulu-Natal MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison, Bheki Ntuli, visited areas in and around Pietermaritzburg to check on compliance by both businesses and members of the public. He was unhappy with the non-compliance by members of the public on the streets, either for not wearing face masks or not adhering to social distancing. In the video below, SABC News reporter Thabiso Sithole interviews Police Minister Bheki Cele: Last month, Co-operative Governance Minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma also warned South Africans that if they do not comply with the nationwide lockdown regulations the country could revert to Level-5 restrictions. Dlamini-Zuma says the rate of coronavirus infections will determine which level the country will move to. She says, “If we move down to Level-4  and we do not stick to the conditions to the restrictions to the public health conditions and the virus starts speeding up in terms of more people getting infected faster, then government will have no option but to move very swiftly back to Level-5. If we stick to all the things that need to be done, all of us collectively, then we may be able to hold on to Level-4 and eventually get to Level-3.” Below are Level-4 lockdown regulations: sabcnews.com | SABC News channel | SABC Radio news SA COVID-19 LOCKDOWN LEVEL 4 TRANSPORT RESTRICTIONS Bus services, taxi services, e-hailing and private motor vehicles may operate at all times of the day, with limitations on vehicle capacity and stringent hygiene requirements. MOVEMENT RESTRICTIONS SECTORS PERMITTED South Africa begins easing  the COVID-19 lockdown on 1 May 2020.  LEVEL 4 Source: South African government LEVEL 4 Mining  Open cast mines at 100% capacity  All other mines at 50% All agriculture  Horticulture Export agriculture Wool Wine Floriculture horticulture related processing Formal waste recycling (glass, plastic, paper and metal) Global business services for export ﻿markets Postal and telecommunications services Forestry, pulp paper Food retail stores already permitted to be open  may sell full line of products within existing stock All financial and professional services Fibre optic and IT services All essential services Export LEVEL 4 Walking, jogging and cycling allowed between 6AM-9AM, within 5KM of your residence, and not in a group. Wearing of  a mask in public is compulsory. Every person is confined to his or her place of residence from 8PM - 5AM. No local or inter-provincial movement of people, except: •	Those returning for alert     level 4 operations •	Once-off return to home •	To perform an essential       or permitted service •	Obtain services allowed to operate •	Buy permitted goods •	Move children, as allowed •	Transportation of goods  •	Exceptional circumstances    e.g.funerals •	Walk, ﻿run or cycle between     6AM-9AM (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));