Police in Piet Retief in Mpumalanga are accused of using excessive force when dealing with the public after they dug up beer hidden in a garden and assaulted one person. Three weeks ago police allegedly confiscated alcohol that Fana Nkosi (50) had concealed in his garden and allegedly assaulted his son in the process. A video circulated on social media shows the police unearthing the alcohol and have accused Nkosi of contravening the national disaster regulations that prohibits the sale of liquor. Nkosi says the police have accused him of selling alcohol while the country is in lockdown to curb the spread of COVID-19. However, he says the police do not have enough evidence to prove that he was selling the alcohol. He claims he had decided to hide the alcohol in his garden because some of his beers went missing. Nkosi says he is having sleepless nights after his alcohol was dug up. Nkosi says, “The police asked me why is the liquor hidden in the garden, then I told them that I was hiding it from my children because they are also drinking alcohol. This was because at some point I noticed that some beers were missing. Then I thought that let me then hide it like we use to do in the olden days.” He says police should return his alcohol because the case was not taken to court. “I didn’t want to keep the alcohol in the house because it was going to be my fault if the children were to be found drunk.  And my children didn’t know the alcohol was hidden in the garden. They were surprised when the police took it out of the garden. Now, I am requesting them to return it because I can’t fall asleep without drinking alcohol.  The court ordered that I should get my bail refund and get my beer back,” says Nkosi. Police confiscate alcohol from illegal traders  Mpumalanga Police spokesperson Leonard Hlathi says Nkosi will not get the alcohol back because they are still investigating the matter. Hlathi also confirmed that a case was opened against the police who allegedly assaulted Nkosi’s son. Hlathi says, “Firstly there is a case that we have opened against the old man. The case did not sit at court because now we were directed to go and take further statements. This is what we’re busy doing currently and regarding the case which has been opened against one of our own, that case is receiving the necessary attention…” “We have informed the relevant authority of the IPID. We are still awaiting for them to come so that they can take the docket. However, we’re not folding arms, we continue with our investigation on this matter,” added Hlathi. The sale of alcohol remains prohibited under level 4 of the lockdown regulations.  sabcnews.com | SABC News channel | SABC Radio news SA COVID-19 LOCKDOWN LEVEL 4 TRANSPORT RESTRICTIONS Bus services, taxi services, e-hailing and private motor vehicles may operate at all times of the day, with limitations on vehicle capacity and stringent hygiene requirements. MOVEMENT RESTRICTIONS SECTORS PERMITTED South Africa begins easing  the COVID-19 lockdown on 1 May 2020.  LEVEL 4 Source: South African government LEVEL 4 Mining  Open cast mines at 100% capacity  All other mines at 50% All agriculture  Horticulture Export agriculture Wool Wine Floriculture horticulture related processing Formal waste recycling (glass, plastic, paper and metal) Global business services for export ﻿markets Postal and telecommunications services Forestry, pulp paper Food retail stores already permitted to be open  may sell full line of products within existing stock All financial and professional services Fibre optic and IT services All essential services Export LEVEL 4 Walking, jogging and cycling allowed between 6AM-9AM, within 5KM of your residence, and not in a group. Wearing of  a mask in public is compulsory. Every person is confined to his or her place of residence from 8PM - 5AM. No local or inter-provincial movement of people, except: •	Those returning for alert     level 4 operations •	Once-off return to home •	To perform an essential       or permitted service •	Obtain services allowed to operate •	Buy permitted goods •	Move children, as allowed •	Transportation of goods  •	Exceptional circumstances    e.g.funerals •	Walk, ﻿run or cycle between     6AM-9AM (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));