The National Association of School Governing Bodies (NASGB) says they have met with Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga and agreed that schools that do not have the necessary equipment and protocols in place, must not reopen on Monday. However, no official communication has been issued by Motshekga’s department in this regard. She is expected to address the nation on Sunday evening. Motshekga had earlier announced that schools will reopen for Grades 7 and 12 learners when Level 3 starts on June 1. The Association’s General-Secretary Matakanye Matakanya says all parents and teachers who observe that their school does not have the necessary personal protective equipment or protocols in place, must contact the association and the Department. “We did meet with the Minister yesterday (Saturday), we agreed with the Minister that this coming week must be a week for mopping up, we really raised concerns that there are schools that do not have the non-negotiables. We referring to water, PPEs, social distancing. The teachers, the parents they must ensure that today they go into their schools and if there are things that really supposed to be in schools are not there they must alert us, they must alert the Department.” COVID-19 Pandemic | Unions discuss teachers first day back at school SGB associations and teacher unions call for postponement in reopening schools The National School Governing Body Associations together with teacher unions are calling for the postponement of the reopening of schools. The call comes after the associations met with the Education Trade Unions, which include SADTU, NAPTOSA, SAOU, PEU and NATU on Friday. They believe that Motshekga’s decision for June 1 to be the date for the resumption of classes was premature. In the video below, Minister Motshekga says schools will reopen for Grades 7 and 12:  Section 28(2) of the Constitution provides that the best interests of children are of paramount importance in every matter concerning children. Whilst we acknowledge that the right to basic education and the necessity for children to return to schools are extremely important rights and considerations, these considerations cannot trump the best interest principle entrenched in the Constitution,” reads a joint statement from the  National School Governing Body Associations and Education Trade Unions. Basic COVID-19 safety materials for learners are also yet to be delivered, despite earlier assurances that they are housed in warehouses in the provinces. “Many schools have not been cleaned and disinfected as per the direction of the Department of Employment and Labour. Below is the statement from the organisations:  Department of Basic Education’s proposed plans for learner safety amid COVID - 19 COVID-19 | SA's BACK TO SCHOOL PLAN Social Distancing No hugging No handshaking Direct contact must be avoided Only two learners per desk Cloth masks to be worn by learners and teachers at all times Extra classes should be arranged in small groups that maintain social distancing. No mass public events No sports matches  No choral practice  No festivals  No eisteddfods Classroom arrangements Limit movement of learners between classes  Sanitise hands on entering of classrooms  Sanitise classrooms prior to the start of school day  No clustering of desks in classrooms BACK TO SCHOOL Everyone must sanitise before entering vehicle Distance between learners  must be managed Masks must be worn throughout the school day Transport Screening and testing Screening of learners and educators to be done at the reopening of schools, starting with Grades 7 and 12. Temperature checks to be administered. Learners or staff members who present with raised temperatures to be considered for isolation and testing. @SABCNEWS sabcnews.com |  SABC News channel | SABC Radio news Source: Department of Basic Education (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));