Trade, Industry and Competition Minister Ebrahim Patel has gazetted directions on the sale of winter clothing, footwear and bedding during level 4 lockdown. In a statement, the department states that these directions clarify the related winter clothing, footwear and home textiles which may be sold during level 4 in terms of the regulations published by the Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs Minister on April 29. The publication of these directions results from Patel’s consultative meeting with industry leaders in the Clothing, Textile, Footwear and Leather sector, held last week. Industry stakeholders had requested that Patel gazette a list of clothing and related products that could be made available for sale in retail stores. A task team of industry representatives and the department worked together to construct a list of essential winter clothing, footwear and home textiles that would be permissible for sale in retail stores across the country during the COVID-19 level 4. The list of winter clothing, footwear and home textiles includes all baby and toddler clothing and footwear; children’s wear, including: Below is the Government Gazette regarding the sale of clothing: In a media statement released by the National Clothing Retail Federation (NCRF) last week, CEO of The Foschini Group and Chairperson of the NCRF, Anthony Thunstrom welcomed the new directions. “The federation has participated in a robust engagement with government and stakeholders to construct the list of essential consumer items for winter clothing and textile items. The leadership of Minister Patel has been appreciated throughout the consultations. The NCRF calls on the clothing retail sector to offer retail environments that adhere to strict health protocols to help mitigate the transmission risks of Covid19,” he said in a press release issued by the Federation. Patel expresses appreciation Patel expressed his appreciation for the positive tone of the engagement with industry stakeholders. He says, “Restarting more parts of our economy is important and we are working hard to ensure that industry follows best practice to protect the health and safety of all our citizens. The discussions with industry builds on the greater cooperation that arose from the Industry Masterplan for the retail-clothing, textile and footwear industry.” “I call on consumers to look for South African-made products, made proudly by local workers, so that we can rebuild the economy. The manufacturing and retail sector has been through a very difficult time and the resumption of clothing sales under level 4 of the new risk-adjusted approach, will assist to provide greater levels of production and commerce in the sector,” Patel adds. Customers are encouraged to limit their trips to retail stores, and to always wear protective face masks and maintain social distance of at least 1.5 metres when around other people. In the video below, COVID-19 lockdown leaves expectant mothers unable to purchase baby clothes: