The Democratic Alliance (DA) says the nationwide lockdown is doing more harm than the coronavirus itself in South Africa. DA Interim Leader John Steenhuisen has called called on President Cyril Ramaphosa to rein in his ministers and says government’s ban on the sale of cigarettes doesn’t make sense. “The real tragedy playing out here is no longer the coronavirus, but the lockdown itself because this lockdown is going to cost many more lives than it can possibly save. This is a hard truth to speak and an even harder truth to hear but the truth that must be spoken.”  The DA says its speaking on behalf of South Africans when it says there’s growing impatience.  Steenhuisen says that’s why citizens are no longer obeying the laws of extended Level 4 lockdown. “We also know that our country’s economy would only withstand a very limited freeze. That is why originally the lockdown had an end date. Three weeks was that it was going to take to source equipment, get hospitals ready and to train nurses and doctors. Level 4 lockdown is the same as level 5, even more restrictive. We now have a military curfew enforced by more than 75 000 officers, which we didn’t have under level 5 and this time with deadline in sight.” The official opposition believes there’s abuse of citizens by the state and power is now centralised around a few. The party says the sad reality is that South Africans will lose their jobs during the extended lockdown. Gradual easing of restrictions President Cyril Ramaphosa last month announced five levels that the country plans to follow to gradually relax lockdown conditions that government has set in place as part of efforts to fight the COVID-19 pandemic. The country begun the easing of its COVID-19 lockdown restrictions on 1 May 2020, from Level 5 to Level 4. Level 5 has been described as “high virus spread, and/or low health system readiness”, where only essential services allowed to operate. According to SA’s risk-adjustment strategy for economic activity, Level 4 is expected to be “moderate to high virus spread, with moderate readiness”. The infographic below depicts life under Level 4:  sabcnews.com | SABC News channel | SABC Radio news SA COVID-19 LOCKDOWN LEVEL 4 TRANSPORT RESTRICTIONS Bus services, taxi services, e-hailing and private motor vehicles may operate at all times of the day, with limitations on vehicle capacity and stringent hygiene requirements. MOVEMENT RESTRICTIONS SECTORS PERMITTED South Africa begins easing  the COVID-19 lockdown on 1 May 2020.  LEVEL 4 Source: South African government LEVEL 4 Mining  Open cast mines at 100% capacity  All other mines at 50% All agriculture  Horticulture Export agriculture Wool Wine Floriculture horticulture related processing Formal waste recycling (glass, plastic, paper and metal) Global business services for export ﻿markets Postal and telecommunications services Forestry, pulp paper Food retail stores already permitted to be open  may sell full line of products within existing stock All financial and professional services Fibre optic and IT services All essential services Export LEVEL 4 Walking, jogging and cycling allowed between 6AM-9AM, within 5KM of your residence, and not in a group. Wearing of  a mask in public is compulsory. Every person is confined to his or her place of residence from 8PM - 5AM. No local or inter-provincial movement of people, except: •	Those returning for alert     level 4 operations •	Once-off return to home •	To perform an essential       or permitted service •	Obtain services allowed to operate •	Buy permitted goods •	Move children, as allowed •	Transportation of goods  •	Exceptional circumstances    e.g.funerals •	Walk, ﻿run or cycle between     6AM-9AM (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); Various economic activities such as mining and transportation are slowly being phased in as Trade and Industry Minister explains in the video below:  Coronavirus cases in South Africa South Africa has confirmed  8 232 confirmed cases of coronavirus and 161 deaths.  COVID-19 STATISTICS IN SOUTH AFRICA sabcnews.com |  SABC News channel | SABC Radio news SOURCE: Department of Health  & ﻿National Institute of Communicable Diseases   Free State  North West  Gauteng  Mpumalanga  Northern Cape Eastern Cape  Limpopo  KwaZulu-Natal Western Cape AS AT 7 MAY 2020 CASES GAUTENG WESTERN CAPE KWAZULU-NATAL EASTERN CAPE FREE STATE LIMPOPO NORTH WEST MPUMALANGA NORTHERN CAPE 1804 3994 1204 929 134 41 40 59 27 15 79 40 18 3 0 0 0 UNALLOCATED 0 DEATHS CONFIRMED CASES | 8 232 DEATHS | 161 TESTS CONDUCTED | 292 153 6 RECOVERIES | 3 153 CLOSED CASES | 3 314 (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));