Some mothers, who want to register their newborns for the child support grant in Senwabarwana in Limpopo, have expressed disappointment after being turned away twice from the South African Social Security Agency (SASSA) office in town. It is the only office open in the area and a large number of mothers flocked there on Wednesday and Thursday. Others slept in the queue but were told to return next week. There have been long queues at SASSA offices across the country in the past two days after child support grant applications were opened. Only mothers of babies born this year are eligible to apply. Women from several villages in the Senwabarwana area also made their way to the SASSA office in town. But most went home without being assisted after spending hours in the queue.  There are allegations that some people received preferential treatment from SASSA officials. The women from Ga-Molete village are unhappy because they were told to return next week, “We also want to be helped instead of being taken from pillar to post because we are from far and pay a lot for transport. We are also forced to bring our babies with, because we are breastfeeding. They should start with those who are early instead of using cards given to some people the previous day.” A mother of a one-month-old baby, says the system needs to be improved to ensure that people don’t get discouraged, “They should have told us how many people will be assisted per day and there was no need for us to stick around. Then give the rest of us new dates. That is better than making us wait the whole day only to experience the same thing the next day.” In the video below, Sassa CEO, Busisiwe Memela-Khambula unpacks the grant: Meanwhile, the South African Social Security Agency says it has received a record number of applications for the R350 special COVID-19 social relief of distress grant. It says more than3.9 million people have applied for the grant within three days of the system going live. New applicants can send a message to the SASSA whatsapp number 082 046 8553. The SMS number is *134*7737# while the email address is srd@sassa.gov.za. INFOGRAPHIC: SA’s COVID-19 stimulus package: Your Name Your Last Name email@email.com +1 304 104201 SA COVID-19 ECONOMIC STIMULUS sabcnews.com | SABC News channel | SABC Radio news President Cyril Ramaphosa has announced a R500 billion economic stimulus package to help South Africa cope with the COVID-19 pandemic. WHERE DID THE MONEY COME FROM? R500 BILLION HIGHLIGHTS WHAT WILL THE MONEY BE USED FOR? Unemployment Insurance Fund Institutions include:  World Bank  International Monetary Fund  BRICS New Development Bank  African Development Bank International Institutions Existing Budget Around R130 billion repatriated from current budget. Healthcare Relief of  social distress Support to companies Municipalities Protective gear for heath workers Community screening and testing Ventilators Increase child support grant by R500 for 6 months  COVID-19 social distress grant of R350 for 6 months Distribution of food parcels to 250 000 homes in within two weeks New model for food assistance through vouchers and cash transfers Emergency water Sanitation of public transport Food and shelter for the homeless. Loan guarantee scheme Tax ﻿relief Unemployment Insurance Fund R500 billion amounts to 10% of the Gross Domestic Product. Began in mid-March. Included tax relief, release of disaster relief funds, emergency procurement, wage support through Unemployment Insurance Fund and funding to small businesses. Aims to stabilise the economy, address ﻿extreme decline in supply and demand and protect jobs. Social relief and economic support package of R500 billion. Economic strategy to drive recovery  as the country emerges from COVID-19 pandemic. 3rd Phase 1st Phase 2nd Phase (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));