The indigent and elderly in Pimville, Soweto, were the beneficiaries of food parcels on Saturday from Cosatu and the Harry Gwala Foundation.  While the residents waited patiently for their food relief at the MM Mokoni AME Church and practiced social distancing, they were educated about the COVID-19 pandemic and measures they can take to combat it. Ntombi Mtembu from the Harry Gwala Foundation has urged more civil society organisations to participate in alleviating the hardships caused by the disease. “I think more than anything else it’s heeding the President’s call that we should unite as a country and look out for each other in the time of COVID-19. We know unemployment is rife. We know that poverty is rife in the country. The Harry Gwala community came here today to give back to the community through the church. We felt it’s important that we heed the President’s call of Ubuntu giving back to the people.” The Department of Social Development is considering other options as there is no clear guideline on the distribution of food parcels:  Churches land a helping hand On Sunday, the Mmabatho Lutheran Church Women’s Prayer League donated food parcels to destitute families at Mmabatho Extension 39 in the North West. The Lutheran Church says it’s practicing what it’s preaching. “We usually say that love your neighbour as you love yourself. Now is the time that we do what Christ has said, to love our neighbour and to take care of them,” said the Church’s Reverend Pontsho Kgoadi. One of the beneficiaries is 54-year-old Reginah Moloantwa, who stays with her three daughters, said her family will now have something to eat. “We will be able to eat something, especially now that I am unemployed together with my children. I would like to thank God and wish that he blesses them.” Last Friday, a coalition of KwaZulu-Natal churches distributed food vouchers to communities of foreign nationals who are unable to access formal government aid during the COVID-19 lockdown. The foreign nationals are also not able to make a living due to the regulations in place as some of them depend on casual work to survive. One of the aid beneficiaries is Sarah Riziki from the Democratic Republic of Congro (DRC), who lives in flat in the Durban CBD with a family of eight. She says they appreciate the help they received. “We really appreciate the help that we got. The vouchers really helped us. My family hasn’t received the grant. So, we are really thankful for the voucher and every little help that we get from organisations. They just call us and give us food.” SA Council of Churches General-Secretary, Bishop Malusi Mpumlwana discusses the role of the Church in the fight against COVID-19: 