A unique sanitising project has been launched with the installation of handwashing stations at Masibambane Secondary School at Bloekombos in Kraaifontein, in Cape Town’s northern suburbs. This is in order to improve sanitation and the hygiene of learners for when the schools eventually re-open. In the video below, Secretariat Officer of Sadtu Xolani Fakude expresses concerns with hygiene and safety in regards to the re-opening of schools:  The implementing NGO, Save Our Schools, also known as S.O.S, says water tanks of 5 000 litres each have been installed to connect to the handwashing stations, that use liquid soap. Masibambane Secondary is a school of about 2 000 learners.  Fourteen handwashing machines were set up by the NGO at schools and community centres to serve over 100 000 residents. Water tanks have already been installed and connected to the liquid soap handwashing machine. Organisation’s CEO Shelley Humphreys says the aim is to help delay the spread of the coronavirus (COVID-19). “We felt it is vital since the schools are set to open on the 1st of June that we need to assist with additional hygiene and sanitations at the school for the children to use. So, this is how the hand sanitation project came up and we are installing 5 000 litre water tank in specific areas along with handwashing stations. We also use them as information portals. The stations themselves have messaging on the importance of social distancing, emergency numbers and the other messaging of the World Health Organisation (WHO).” The basic guidelines of the WHO aimed at delaying the spread of COVID-19 are, among others, the washing of hands with soap and water and to disinfect as often as possible. Community leader at Bloekombos Zingisani Moepa says people in the townships and informal settlements struggle to keep to them. “This, in particular, will assist more, especially the children and the elderly in terms of spreading of COVID-19. It really comes as a solution, in particular to the people of this community. You will know that most of them are not working and are not able to afford hand sanitisers, and this comes as a solution to them and we are thankful to this organisation once more.” The handwashing project will create jobs for locals who will monitor, manage and sterilize the tanks, to ensure they remain clean, filled with fresh water, and replenish liquid soap supplies.