The Head of government’s Advisory Committee on COVID-19, Professor Salim Abdool Karim, says statistics seem to indicate that the vast majority of children who contract the coronavirus suffer only mild symptoms. His statement comes after Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga announced on Tuesday night that grades seven and 12 learners would return to school on June 1 in a phased-in approach. Professor Karim has reassured parents that learners will be safe when they return to school. He says, “The big issue is that this virus is here to stay, we will not be able to be protected from this virus from a vaccine for probably the next 12 to 18 months. We cannot simply go and lock ourselves away for that period, we have to go back to school, we have to go back to work and what we have to do is do that following the rules.” In the video below the SABC speaks to Professor Salim Abdool Karim:  Mixed reactions to re-opening of schools in KwaZulu-Natal Parents in KwaZulu-Natal have expressed mixed reactions to the reopening of schools. Some say the department must be given a chance to proceed with the academic year, while others say they do not believe everyone can be home schooled and that it is too soon for schools to re-open as the number of coronavirus infections are still rising. In the audio below, parents express their views:  INFOGRAPHIC: Back to school plan: Department of Basic Education’s proposed plans for learner safety amid COVID - 19 COVID-19 | SA's BACK TO SCHOOL PLAN Social Distancing No hugging No handshaking Direct contact must be avoided Only two learners per desk Cloth masks to be worn by learners and teachers at all times Extra classes should be arranged in small groups that maintain social distancing. No mass public events No sports matches  No choral practice  No festivals  No eisteddfods Classroom arrangements Limit movement of learners between classes  Sanitise hands on entering of classrooms  Sanitise classrooms prior to the start of school day  No clustering of desks in classrooms BACK TO SCHOOL Everyone must sanitise before entering vehicle Distance between learners  must be managed Masks must be worn throughout the school day Transport Screening and testing Screening of learners and educators to be done at the reopening of schools, starting with Grades 7 and 12. Temperature checks to be administered. Learners or staff members who present with raised temperatures to be considered for isolation and testing. @SABCNEWS sabcnews.com |  SABC News channel | SABC Radio news Source: Department of Basic Education (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));