People who want to move house can now do so under strict conditions until the 7th of June. On Thursday,  Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs Minister, Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma made amendments to the Level 4 lockdown regulations, allowing citizens to move to their new homes during the lockdown. Anyone wanting to move must have a copy of their new signed lease. They must also obtain a permit to move from the nearest police station. “It’s important that all protocols are adhered to which include acquiring permits from your local station commander and having all relevant documentation with you so that no one is denied an opportunity to move and that there is no chance of spreading COVID-19,” implores Western Cape Human Settlements Minister, Tertuis Simmers. The move follows an outcry by frustrated homeowners and tenants as they were not able to move or relocate during the lockdown. In the video below, SABC News reporter Jayed-Leigh Paulse reports further:  Easing of lockdown The country went in a lockdown on 27 March 2020 and was under the most restriction stay-at-home order – Level 5 for 35 days. It was eased from May 1.  Government has said there may be a time when provinces are placed under different lockdown levels. The decision will be based on the number of infections in each province. There is also a possibility of the country reverting to Level 5 depending on severity of the outbreak. Below are some of the sectors that can operate under Level 4:   sabcnews.com | SABC News channel | SABC Radio news SA COVID-19 LOCKDOWN LEVEL 4 TRANSPORT RESTRICTIONS Bus services, taxi services, e-hailing and private motor vehicles may operate at all times of the day, with limitations on vehicle capacity and stringent hygiene requirements. MOVEMENT RESTRICTIONS SECTORS PERMITTED South Africa begins easing  the COVID-19 lockdown on 1 May 2020.  LEVEL 4 Source: South African government LEVEL 4 Mining  Open cast mines at 100% capacity  All other mines at 50% All agriculture  Horticulture Export agriculture Wool Wine Floriculture horticulture related processing Formal waste recycling (glass, plastic, paper and metal) Global business services for export ﻿markets Postal and telecommunications services Forestry, pulp paper Food retail stores already permitted to be open  may sell full line of products within existing stock All financial and professional services Fibre optic and IT services All essential services Export LEVEL 4 Walking, jogging and cycling allowed between 6AM-9AM, within 5KM of your residence, and not in a group. Wearing of  a mask in public is compulsory. Every person is confined to his or her place of residence from 8PM - 5AM. No local or inter-provincial movement of people, except: •	Those returning for alert     level 4 operations •	Once-off return to home •	To perform an essential       or permitted service •	Obtain services allowed to operate •	Buy permitted goods •	Move children, as allowed •	Transportation of goods  •	Exceptional circumstances    e.g.funerals •	Walk, ﻿run or cycle between     6AM-9AM (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));