 “Nursing the World to Health during the COVID-19 pandemic” is the theme of this year’s International Nurses Day. The celebrations coincide with the anniversary of Florence Nightingale’s birth, the founder of modern nursing. In South Africa, the commemoration comes amid level 4 national lockdown. It is an opportunity for us to speak to some of those health workers who risk their lives every day to save others and to find out what keeps them going as nurses. Here the explanation given by three senior nurses: Embre Johannes-Nelson from Uitenhage in the Eastern Cape has been a nurse for 30 years. Sister Embre says even though she has worked under intense psychological pressure, the manifestation of COVID-19 pandemic worldwide is mind-blowing. Sister Johannes-Nelson explains:  ‘Nurses in SA not taken care of’ Martha Modiba, with approximately 20 years of experience, holds a diploma in nursing science. She feels that nurses in South Africa are not taken care of. She says nurses contribute a lot into the health system, and they deserve good working conditions and good personal protective equipment (PPE) to fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. Sister Modiba:  ‘Nursing a noble profession’ Eldah Radebe from Johannesburg, Gauteng, has been a nurse for over 40 years – specialised in oncology nursing science and later becomes a lecturer. She says nursing is a noble profession and a calling. Radebe has a definition for the word NURSE: – N (nearness to the patient) – U (understanding the patient) – R (reassuring the patient) – S(sympathy) – E (empathy) and nurses must have all the attributes. Sister Radebe below:  On Tuesday, Health Minister Dr Zweli Mkhize held a commemoration candlelight ceremony at the King Edward Hospital in Durban KwaZulu-Natal for nurses. He also used the opportunity to announce the latest COVID-19 statistics.  Face of healthcare Minister Mkhize said that nurses play a critical role in protecting and caring for communities and that it could not be overstated. He said that nurses are in many ways the face of healthcare. 