Over 20 people have been arrested in Kempton Park, Ekurhuleni, east of Johannesburg, for violating lockdown regulations. This as some shops were shut down for selling expired goods. This follows a multidisciplinary operation in Ekurhuleni on Saturday, by Gauteng Provincial Police Commissioner Elias Mawela and Gauteng Community Safety MEC, Faith Mazibuko, to try and enforce lockdown regulations.  Law enforcement agencies patrolled the streets of Kempton Park to see if people were complying with the lockdown regulations. A bad stench in the air from rotten meat led to the questioning of the shop owner, while environmental health inspectors checked items to see if any of the good had reached their sell by date. Fraudulent documents and expired food were discovered, resulting in the closure of a butcher. Gauteng Safety MEC Faith Mazibuko says, “It means our people have been taken for a ride for a very long time, but with us now hammering, checking each and every shop. That’s when we’re picking up all the wrong things that have been happening under our nose.” On the other side, a shop operating illegally was raided weeks ago but was caught operating again. Gauteng Provincial Police Commissioner Elias Mawela says COVID-19 lockdown has introduced a new way of policing. “We need to be on the ground, foot patrolling closer to the people so that we know what’s happening. It’s a new way of policing. Three guys were arrested and four firearms recovered. These guys were intercepted on their way to commit a robbery. Another guy was arrested. He was found in possession of drugs,” says Mawela. Over 20 people were also arrested for failure to confine themselves to their premises. Below is a graphic of Level 4 regulations: sabcnews.com | SABC News channel | SABC Radio news SA COVID-19 LOCKDOWN LEVEL 4 TRANSPORT RESTRICTIONS Bus services, taxi services, e-hailing and private motor vehicles may operate at all times of the day, with limitations on vehicle capacity and stringent hygiene requirements. MOVEMENT RESTRICTIONS SECTORS PERMITTED South Africa begins easing  the COVID-19 lockdown on 1 May 2020.  LEVEL 4 Source: South African government LEVEL 4 Mining  Open cast mines at 100% capacity  All other mines at 50% All agriculture  Horticulture Export agriculture Wool Wine Floriculture horticulture related processing Formal waste recycling (glass, plastic, paper and metal) Global business services for export ﻿markets Postal and telecommunications services Forestry, pulp paper Food retail stores already permitted to be open  may sell full line of products within existing stock All financial and professional services Fibre optic and IT services All essential services Export LEVEL 4 Walking, jogging and cycling allowed between 6AM-9AM, within 5KM of your residence, and not in a group. Wearing of  a mask in public is compulsory. Every person is confined to his or her place of residence from 8PM - 5AM. No local or inter-provincial movement of people, except: •	Those returning for alert     level 4 operations •	Once-off return to home •	To perform an essential       or permitted service •	Obtain services allowed to operate •	Buy permitted goods •	Move children, as allowed •	Transportation of goods  •	Exceptional circumstances    e.g.funerals •	Walk, ﻿run or cycle between     6AM-9AM (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));