The Western Cape department of Community Safety has issued a stern warning to liquor outlets that are continuing to contravene lockdown regulations on the sale of alcohol. Sixteen liquor licenses were suspended in the province between March 23 and April 30. Department spokesperson, Cayla Ann Tomás Murray, says the Western Cape Liquor Authority are dealing with several investigations into non-compliance with the National Disaster Regulations. “Of the 43 investigations conducted, 16 liquor licenses have now been suspended and 4 reports are being prepared for the Liquor Licensing Tribunal’s (LLT) consideration. An additional 8 cases remain under investigation and 5 have been referred to SAPS.” “The MEC of Community Safety, Albert Fritz, has reiterated his stern warning that any liquor vendor operating during the lockdown will be eligible for a fine and may lose their license, subject to an investigation,” explains Cayla Ann Tomás Murray. Ramaphosa urged not to lift ban on alcohol sale Chairperson of the Portfolio Committee on Health Dr. Sibongiseni Dhlomo has called on President Cyril Ramaphosa to ignore calls from the Liquor Forum in Gauteng to sell alcohol during the lockdown. Dhlomo says people who consume alcohol tend to have a poor sense of judgment for the environment. The sale of alcohol during the lockdown is one of the key regulations implemented in a bid to curb the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. The video below, is Dr Dhlomo’s request to President Ramaphosa: Ban on alcohol sales to remain during lockdown The Presidency has declined the request of the Gauteng Liquor Forum on behalf of its members to sell alcohol during the declared national state of disaster. The President has further noted that the Gauteng Liquor Forum’s position is not shared by all industry stakeholders, and that a number of other organizations in the liquor industry have rejected the call for the restrictions to be lifted. In the video below, Co-operative Governance Minister says the sale of alcohol is still not allowed: 