Finance Minister Tito Mboweni will present a special adjustment budget on June 24 to make provision for additional spending due to measures to contain the spread of coronavirus. National Treasury published the special adjustment budget guidelines on its website which include the budget process to be followed. The special budget follows President Cyril Ramaphosa’s announcement that government would provide R500 billion in fiscal support to deal with COVID-19. In the video below, President Cyril Ramaphosa announced the economic relief plan: Economist Iraj Abedian says, “It was inevitable. As we all know the president has made a lot of announcement and Treasury to make this legal the National Treasury will have to resubmit a new budget to the parliament and get approval for this type of reallocations of fiscal spending.” Stimulus package Last month, President Cyril Ramaphosa announced a R500 billion social and economic relief plan which seeks to stimulate the economy, protect jobs and alleviate hunger. Ramaphosa announced that all unemployed South Africans will be entitled to a special grant of R350 for the next six months. The COVID-19 Social Relief of Distress grant will benefit individuals who are currently unemployed and do not receive any other form of social grant or Unemployment Insurance Fund-payment. INFOGRAPHIC: COVID-19 Economic Stimulus Package: Your Name Your Last Name email@email.com +1 304 104201 SA COVID-19 ECONOMIC STIMULUS sabcnews.com | SABC News channel | SABC Radio news President Cyril Ramaphosa has announced a R500 billion economic stimulus package to help South Africa cope with the COVID-19 pandemic. WHERE DID THE MONEY COME FROM? R500 BILLION HIGHLIGHTS WHAT WILL THE MONEY BE USED FOR? Unemployment Insurance Fund Institutions include:  World Bank  International Monetary Fund  BRICS New Development Bank  African Development Bank International Institutions Existing Budget Around R130 billion repatriated from current budget. Healthcare Relief of  social distress Support to companies Municipalities Protective gear for heath workers Community screening and testing Ventilators Increase child support grant by R500 for 6 months  COVID-19 social distress grant of R350 for 6 months Distribution of food parcels to 250 000 homes in within two weeks New model for food assistance through vouchers and cash transfers Emergency water Sanitation of public transport Food and shelter for the homeless. Loan guarantee scheme Tax ﻿relief Unemployment Insurance Fund R500 billion amounts to 10% of the Gross Domestic Product. Began in mid-March. Included tax relief, release of disaster relief funds, emergency procurement, wage support through Unemployment Insurance Fund and funding to small businesses. Aims to stabilise the economy, address ﻿extreme decline in supply and demand and protect jobs. Social relief and economic support package of R500 billion. Economic strategy to drive recovery  as the country emerges from COVID-19 pandemic. 3rd Phase 1st Phase 2nd Phase (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); In the video below, political parties react to President Ramaphosa’s R500 billion stimulus package: