The National Council of Churches (NCC) has appealed to President Cyril Ramaphosa to allow church gatherings during the less restrictive level 4 of the nationwide lockdown that is currently in place. The council says it has written to the President requesting him to allow churches to operate the same way schools would be allowed to reopen under the lockdown. The Department of Basic Education has proposed that the reopening of schools be done in phases, starting with Grades 7 and 12 from June. President of the Council, Dr Monokoane Hlobo, says the church has a role to play during this time. “The church should actually play a role in the present situation. You have people who need to be counseled on their problems, particularly with regards to gender-based violence and the church has a role to pray for the healing of the land so that that is why we are actually saying the President should actually allow the church to start to operate gradually. What we are saying is that if a grade 12 or grade 7 learner is trusted to go to school, government should also trust the church people to go back to the church.” Level 4 COVID-19 punishable rules and regulations For the duration of the national state of disaster, not obliging to the following regulations is an offence and is, on conviction, liable to a fine or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding six months. There is to be no assembly, concourse or procession of more than 100 persons. Not confining to place of residence from 20H00 until 05H00 daily (except persons with a permit) The sale, dispensing and distribution of liquor is not allowed. This also includes the transportation of liquor Non-adherence to curfew Alcohol Leaving their residence for none of the below Convening gatherings perform an essential or permitted service, as allowed in Level 4;  go to work wherewith the relevant permit  buy permitted goods;  obtain services that are allowed to operate  walk, run or cycle between the hours of 06H00 to 09H00, within a 5km radius Business Compliance Operating a business under level 4 without ensuring that there is a designated COVID -19 compliance officer. Business not taking precautions Business must make necessary arrangements for staff in the establishment, this includes - 1. Sanitary and social distancing measures and facilities at the entrance and exit to the workplace; 3. Screening facilities and systems; 4. Attendance -record system and infrastructure: 5. Testing facilities (for establishments with more than 500 employees); 6. Staff rotational arrangements Retailers not protecting customers Manufacturing operating without adherence Manufacturing Factories may scale up to full employment, except where otherwise indicated, and subject to strict health protocols. Any retail outlet without arrangements for customers or members of the public, including sanitation and social distancing measures. Not wearing a mask No person will be allowed to use any form of public transport, or enter a building, place or premises, if they do not wear a cloth face mask or a homemade item that covers the nose and mouth when in a public place, or another appropriate item to cover the nose and mouth. Avoiding tracing of COVID-19 cases Any person who has been confirmed to having contracted COVID -19, or who is suspected of having contracted COVID -19 may not refuse to- (a) Submit to a medical examination (b) Be ﻿admitted to a health establishment or a quarantine or isolation site  (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); South Africa currently has 9 420 COVID-19 infections and 186 deaths. Cooperative Governance Minister Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma has urged South Africans to continue to adhere to regulations that are in place as part of efforts to curb the spread of the virus. The Minister has warned that failure to do so could force the country back to the stringent level 5 lockdown. Social distancing and the avoidance of crowded spaces are some of the precautionary measures that authorities are encouraging.