The National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa (Numsa) has embarked on a strike at the steel supplier, Macsteel. Numsa says the management of Macsteel has made unilateral changes by reducing the salaries of employees by 20% with effect from this month and will continue to do so for at least two months. The union says the company has cited the effects of the coronavirus. Numsa spokesperson Phakamile Hlubi-Majola says the company has failed to make an application to the Unemployment Insurance Fund (UIF) Temporary Employee Relief Scheme so that workers can get help. Hlubi-Majola says management has applied for an urgent interdict in an attempt to block the strike. She says, “This is completely unreasonable, it demonstrates what our members are angry about, this is management that doesn’t care about workers, but would rather take money that could be used to resolve this.” Macsteel’s management could not be immediately reached for comment. Exploitation of workers Last month, Numsa accused the National Employers Association of South Africa of exploiting workers during the national lockdown. Numsa said employers should not shift the burden of the lockdown onto the workers. The union was demanding that employers should not force workers to take paid leave from their annual leave because the National Disaster declared by government is not the fault of the workers. Numsa said workers should be paid in full during the lockdown period. In the video below, last month, Numsa said that they are shocked and dismayed at the announcement by Comair that it is placing the airline under business rescue: INFOGRAPHIC: SA’s stimulus package: Your Name Your Last Name email@email.com +1 304 104201 SA COVID-19 ECONOMIC STIMULUS sabcnews.com | SABC News channel | SABC Radio news President Cyril Ramaphosa has announced a R500 billion economic stimulus package to help South Africa cope with the COVID-19 pandemic. WHERE DID THE MONEY COME FROM? R500 BILLION HIGHLIGHTS WHAT WILL THE MONEY BE USED FOR? Unemployment Insurance Fund Institutions include:  World Bank  International Monetary Fund  BRICS New Development Bank  African Development Bank International Institutions Existing Budget Around R130 billion repatriated from current budget. Healthcare Relief of  social distress Support to companies Municipalities Protective gear for heath workers Community screening and testing Ventilators Increase child support grant by R500 for 6 months  COVID-19 social distress grant of R350 for 6 months Distribution of food parcels to 250 000 homes in within two weeks New model for food assistance through vouchers and cash transfers Emergency water Sanitation of public transport Food and shelter for the homeless. Loan guarantee scheme Tax ﻿relief Unemployment Insurance Fund R500 billion amounts to 10% of the Gross Domestic Product. Began in mid-March. Included tax relief, release of disaster relief funds, emergency procurement, wage support through Unemployment Insurance Fund and funding to small businesses. Aims to stabilise the economy, address ﻿extreme decline in supply and demand and protect jobs. Social relief and economic support package of R500 billion. Economic strategy to drive recovery  as the country emerges from COVID-19 pandemic. 3rd Phase 1st Phase 2nd Phase (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));