Monitoring and law enforcement of inter-provincial travelling is continuing at various borders of Gauteng province. MEC for Economic Development, Agriculture and Environment in Gauteng, Morakane Mosupye was at the Brits Plaza, on a border between North West and Gauteng provinces, checking issues of compliance with the Level 4 COVID-19 rules. South Africa is now on a Level 4 lockdown and there is likely to be more traffic on the road. More activity means authorities need to be on high alert to ensure the lockdown guidelines are observed. People who had left their province are allowed to return for work, but that’s the only trip they can make between provinces. A passenger Tiisetso Molele gave authorities thumbs up. “I feel good because they are checking all of us if you are not infected. If you are not carrying anything that is illegal here. So they are doing a very good job,” says Molele. Fellow passenger called on South Africans to meet authorities half way in efforts to curb the spread of the deadly coronavirus. “I am very much happy with how the police are doing their work. They are doing a very good job. What we have to consider is that this is the problem for everyone of us. So, what they are doing, they’re doing it to protect ourselves. So ,also us, as South African citizens, we have to meet them half way,” pleaded the passanger. A taxi operator reported that there is no reason to complain regarding authorities presence on the country’s roads. “Everything is fine. Not complaining. Police are working. It’s fine.” However, a car was impounded following realisation that it’s license disk has expired over a year ago. Also the driver could not produce driving license. MEC Morakane Mosupye says this is to ensure compliance and adherence to regulations. Mosupye also monitored the movement of people and goods between the two provinces. Health officials were also on the scene performing screening for the COVID-19 symptoms on travellers. Mosupye says this is the process to ensure people abide by regulations and to enforce the law. “As you would know, people are allowed to travel one way. From one province to the other. So there’s no toeing and frowing. So, that’s basically what we are on the look out for. But that’s not the only thing that we are not doing. Since we were here this morning there’s been an arrest and a gentleman was travelling from somewhere in the North West going to Nelspruit and he had just over ten small bags of dagga with him. That was an arrest. He was arrested. So your normal policing work is also continuing in the process,” says Mosupye. In this video below, law officials are conducting vehicle inspections and COVID-19 adherence:  Below is a graphic that highlights Level 4 lockdown regulations:  Loading… (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));