The World Health Organisation (WHO) has released six criteria for lifting a coronavirus lockdown. These are adequate control of the transmission of the virus, tracing, testing and treatment systems, minimising risk of resurgence, preventative measures in public spaces, managing the importation of the virus, and education and empowerment of communities. WHO Director-General, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus says the coronavirus pandemic highlights the urgent need for all countries to invest in strong health systems and primary healthcare. “The pandemic has made it crystal that we’re one world that has more in common with each other than we would ever dare to believe. The best defence against disease outbreaks and other health threats is preparedness, which includes investing in building strong health systems and primary healthcare. If we don’t invest in both, we will face not just health consequences, but the social, economic and political fallout that we are already experiencing in this pandemic.” In the video below, the WHO gives an update on COVID-19:  The WHO has published the 2020 World Health Statistics, which show that overall people around the world are living both longer and healthier lives. However, the report reflects that the rate of progress made is too slow to meet the Sustainable Development Goals and will be further thrown off-track by COVID-19. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, says, “How is that in 2020, approximately one billion people are spending at least 10% of their household budgets on healthcare? Over 55% countries have fewer than 40 nursing and midwifery personnel per 10 000 people. The world has not done enough to deliver on the promises of health for all. During the World Health Assembly next week, we will discuss with health leaders from across the world, not only on how to defeat COVID-19 but also how we can build back stronger health systems everywhere.” The WHO has reiterated its call for a global ceasefire as the world continues to try and stem the spread of the coronavirus. Yesterday, at least 16 people, including two newborn babies were killed in Afghanistan when gunmen disguised as police attacked a hospital in the capital Kabul. Nurses and mothers were also killed. The maternity clinic was run by the international humanitarian organisation Doctors Without Borders. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus opened a briefing in Geneva Switzerland with a minute of silence for those killed. “In the time of a global pandemic, I urge all stakeholders to put aside politics and prioritise peace, a global ceasefire and ending this pandemic together. Every day without a ceasefire more people are dying unnecessarily. Out of solidarity and respect for those killed and endured, as well as those nurses and health professionals working right now in some of the most difficult environments in the world, I would like to ask for a collective minute of silence. Please join me.”