The South African Department of Basic Education had announced that it will begin phasing in the reopening of schools as of June 1. Grade 7 and 12 learners will return to school on June 1. Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga made the announcement on Tuesday night. Motshekga says their decision is based on expert advice from the medical fraternity and research locally and abroad. Reports from Education MECs across the country also point to a state of readiness. “We are confident that the reopening of schools across provinces will happen as outlined in the protocol that has been developed. The reports we got are showing that preparations have been taking place and good progress has been made.” Schools closed in March after President Cyril Ramaphosa declared the coronavirus outbreak a state of national disaster. “The closure of schools to slow down the coronavirus spread was a necessary step to take to contain the virus and save lives. And we were among the first even before the lockdown to close our doors.” “If there is anything we learnt from coronavirus is that we all or we need each other and to work together and move,” Motshekga says.  Minister Motshekga says COVID-19 testing will be conducted in schools daily. She’s however admitted that social distancing will be a challenge, saying that is why learners will be returning to school in phases. Motshekga has urged parents and legal guardians of children to declare underlying conditions of learners.  The reopening of Early Childhood Development Centres is being considered and her department will communicate its decision on this once a plan is finalised. Nutrition programme The National School Nutrition Programme will also resume and has been adjusted to the 2020 feeding calendar in accordance with the curriculum recovery plan. Minister Motshekga says all food handlers will be supplied with Personal Protective Equipment. About 9 million children in South Africa benefit from government’s nutrition programme. South Africa is in a national COVID-19 lockdown which restricts the movement of people in efforts to slow down the spread of the deadly virus. The plan outlines regulations on social distancing, classroom, transport as well as screening and testing regulations. According to the plan, hugging and shaking hands will not be allowed in schools. Only two learners will be permitted to share a desk. Some parents and teachers unions around South Africa have raised concerns about reopening schools too quickly. This as some schools in South Africa remain overcrowded without proper sanitation and running water.   