At the Durban taxi rank in KwaZulu-Natal, scores of people are taking advantage of the inter-provincial travel window during the nationwide COVID-19 lockdown. Long distance taxis have been transporting people back to their places of work and their homes. South Africans have been given until Thursday to move between provinces. Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula announced that the once-off opportunity is meant to help people go back home and to their workplaces. During level 5 long distance taxis and buses were not operating. Paulina Mduti from Ficksburg, in Free State, will now get a chance to spend her maternity leave in her hometown. “I’m going to Fiksburg. I’m taking my newborn baby home. I will be at home for a long period since I’m on maternity leave. I do not have any documents,” says Mduti. At the YMCA taxi rank in Durban, a handful of people wearing masks could be seen pulling suitcases claiming that they are going back to work. “I’m going to Welkom. I’m returning to work although the have not called me to come back. Lockdown forced me to in Durban. I’m happy now because we have moved from Level 5 to Level 4,” says one traveller. “I’m travelling from Durban to Welkom. I came here to see someone who was sick. Then I was unable to go back to Free State,” says another. Another says, “I received a call from Harmon Mine in Welkom. When we get back to work the company should ensure our safety. They should provide us with sanitisers, and gloves.” Minister Mbalula also announced that all public transport commuters will be required to wear face masks and taxis should transport a reduced number of passengers. The Durban Station Long Distance Taxi Association’s spokesperson, Mcabangeni Nala, says they are battling to make enough money because they can only transport a few passengers. According to lockdown rules, minibus taxis are required to carry 70% of their vehicles’ capacity to ensure that social distancing is maintained. This means that a taxi licensed to carry 10 passengers is now allowed to carry seven, those licensed to carry 15 are now carrying 10, while the 22 seaters are permitted to carry 15 passengers. “We are following regulations that were set by government. We are not taking full loads, people are wearing masks and we provide them with sanitiser. Our main concern is that since we are not taking full loads. It will be difficult to pay car installments. But we will follow these regulations to prevent the spread of the virus. Since people are now using masks and sanitisers, government should allow us to take full loads so that we can make profit. Our cars are paying up to R15 000 installment,” explains Nala. Low traffic volumes N3 toll concession spokesperson, Con Roux, says that the route, which connects KwaZulu-Natal, Gauteng, the Free State and Mpumalanga, is currently experiencing very low traffic volumes. Roux has encouraged motorists to be careful on the road. “On the N3 we’ve had very low traffic volumes. Yesterday, it was Friday, Workers Day. Traffic volumes peaked at 300 vehicles and higher heading northbound though De Hoek Plaza. Now, to put that in context, on Easter Monday we have about 2 500 vehicles an hour. You can see it’s very low traffic volumes. Those low traffic volumes have been repeated today. In addition to that, I’m pleased to report that there’s been no incidents of motor crashes over last 24 hours,” says Roux. Meanwhile, the KwaZulu Natal Department of Transport has emphasised that law enforcement agencies will continue to enforce lockdown regulations. “We are continuing with our intensified lockdown enforcement operations. The intention is to ensure that while the country is on the adjusted economic lockdown, we continue to make sure that there’s maximum adherence in terms of the conditions that have been imposed in terms of making sure that we stick to gazetted and approved hours in public transport. You must only leave when there is something essential and when there is a valid reason for you to leave your place,” says the department’s Spokesperson, Kwanele Ncalane. Level 4 lockdown rules allow taxis to operate from 5am until 19:00pm every day. Below is a graphic of Level 4 lockdown regulations:  Loading… (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));