In KwaZulu-Natal many fitness fanatics are already taking advantage of the adjusted lockdown regulations on Level 4. Several runners were up and about from early Friday morning in areas north of Durban, enjoying the open road in their club gear. A number of runners, some in pairs took full advantage of being allowed back on the road. Some ran solo and were all smiles. This is the first time they have been allowed to exercise outside their homes in about 5 weeks. Many were seen jogging with masks on, adhering to the adjusted regulations announced by government. They include the compulsory wearing of masks in public. In this video, joggers in Port Elizabeth take advantage of Level 4 lockdown regulations  Meanwhile, cold and damp weather conditions accompanied by some thick fog in Cape Town did not stop some people from taking advantage of the Level 4 regulations of the lockdown to exercise in public. Runners, cyclists and walkers made their way to the Sea Point Promenade and other areas. As the sun started to rise, numbers started to pick up and the familiar sound of barking dogs could once again be heard on the promenade. It appears that some cyclists are not adhering to the lockdown rules as many could be seen cycling in groups, which is not allowed.  A number of people have been seen jogging and walking in KaNyamazane near Mbombela in Mpumalanga. They expressed excitement that government has heeded to their call to exercise. They believe part of fighting the coronavirus is to keep fit: “So we need to train in order to keep our immune system okay. It did affect me but not quite in a big manner I was able to do minor exercises at home.” “It was a negative impact but we should listen to what government is saying. If they said we must stay at home we must stay at home. To keep safe is what’s important for us.” “We’re back to our normal life so slowly, as you can see we are covered. Everything we just going to go to the time they have given us. After that we go home we lock ourselves.” Below is an infographic on Level 4 lockdown regulations  