The Limpopo Department of Education has advised School Management Teams not to report for duty on Monday. Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga had announced that Management Teams across the country should report for duty on Monday, to start preparations for the re-opening of schools in a phased-approach. The provincial department says the reopening of schools is dependent on a number of strict COVID-19 conditions and protocols, which are yet to be met by the national department. The national department is set to meet with teacher unions in Monday. Limpopo Departmental of Education spokesperson, Tidimalo Chuene says, “The massive demand for Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) by many establishments around the country has resulted in some delay in the delivery of material that has been procured for schools, offices and other learning facilities.” “We have ordered sanitisers, masks, visors, detergents and infrared thermometers. Delivery is expected in the next few days. It is on this note that the department is postponing the return of School Management Teams to a date that will be communicated in due course,” explains Chuene. Meanwhile, in April, the department was heavily criticized by some teacher unions and parents after a report circulated on social media suggesting that pupils would return to classes in the first week of May. The total number of coronavirus (COVID-19) cases in South Africa has surpassed the 10 000 mark with confirmed infections now at 10 015. The Western Cape and the Eastern Cape account for 84% of the country’s 595 new COVID-19 cases. The country has recorded eight new deaths related to the virus. Four of the deaths occurred in Gauteng, three in the Western Cape and the other in the Eastern Cape. SA ﻿COVID-19 cases       Total cases    Recovered    Deaths    Active cases 10 015  5 648   * as at 10 May 2020 4 173  194     TOTAL TESTS CONDUCTED 341 336   (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));