The family of struggle stalwart Denis Goldberg says his funeral arrangements will only be made in the next few days, refuting reports that the funeral will take place on Sunday. Goldberg died at the age of 87 after a long battle with cancer. He was the only other remaining Rivonia Trialist who was convicted alongside former President Nelson Mandela for treason. The other one is Andrew Mlangeni.  He served about 22 years of his sentence. In the video below, the SABC News looks back at key events in the life of Denis Goldberg:  Flags to fly at half-mast Last week, President Cyril Ramaphosa ordered the country’s flags to fly at half-mast at every station in the country to observe four days of national mourning for Goldberg. He also said South Africans could honour him in silent prayer as it was not possible to bid him goodbye in numbers due to the national lockdown. According to the Presidency, Goldberg was born in Cape Town in 1933 and grew up in an intellectual family, becoming aware of national as well as international politics at an early age. In the early 1950s, Goldberg joined the Congress of Democrats and the Communist Party underground. His keen sense of justice prompted him early on in life to fight injustices in this country. He was the only white member of Umkhonto weSizwe (MK), an armed wing of the ANC, to be arrested and sentenced. In the video below, SABC journalist Tebogo Alexander converses with Denis Goldberg.  Parties pay tribute to Goldberg Political parties on Thursday paid tribute to Goldberg. UDM leader Bantu Holomisa said it is a pity that Goldberg will not be given the high profile services he should receive due to COVID-19. “Denis played his role during the struggle period and we respect him for that; we salute him. On the other hand, it is a pity that he will be buried during this lockdown period. How I wish that he could have been given a hero’s farewell.” Former IFP leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi said he will always cherish the sacrifices Goldberg made. “We must always cherish the fact that those stalwarts with Madiba sacrificed so much for our liberation. At least, we are still around and that is why it’s so sad when with his passing away, I can only think of my brother Andrew Mlangeni who remains from those Rivonia Trialist stalwarts. And just on the day, we celebrated the release of Mr Mandela this year in Cape Town in February, I never thought that was the last time I would be with him.” The ANC said in a statement that it is deeply saddened by the passing. In a statement, the party says Goldberg belonged to the illustrious generation of freedom fighters who were prepared to sacrifice all in the struggle for liberation. In the video below, political parties pay tribute to Denis Goldberg:  