British American Tobacco South Africa (BATSA) will on Friday file an urgent court application against government’s decision to extend the ban on tobacco products when the country moves to Level 3 of the nationwide lockdown on Monday. BATSA says its action is supported by, amongst others, Japan Tobacco International. The organisation says it has made every effort to engage with government over the matter, but has to date received no response. BATSA says the extended ban on tobacco is driving up the illicit trade on cigarettes, threatens thousands of jobs and is costing the government around R 35 million a day in tax. There has been criticism over the decision to allow for the sale of alcohol and yet extend the ban on tobacco. The Fair Trade Independent Tobacco Association has taken government to court over the matter and the Tobacco Transformation Alliance has called for an inquiry into alleged links between illicit tobacco traders and high profile politicians. Statement from BATSA:  In the video below, British American Tobacco threatened to take government to court at the beginning of May: On Tuesday, Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs Minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma said there are short and long-term benefits for people who stop smoking. She cautiously responded to questions on tobacco due to the pending legal challenge against the ban on the sale of cigarettes. She told the National Council of Provinces (NCOP) that health experts and the World Health Organisation (WHO) have warned that smokers who contract the virus could face serious problems. Dlamini-Zuma quoted the WHO on some of the benefits of giving up smoking. She said, “The short-term benefits, I will just read some to you … it says: If you stop smoking, in 12 hours the carbon monoxide in your blood drops to normal. Two weeks after, your circulation improves and your lung function increases. One month to nine months, coughing and shortness of breath will decrease. And it goes on … I won’t waste your time.”-Additional reporting by Mercedes Besent. In the video below, Prof Guy Richards speaks about the impact of coronavirus on smokers: INFOGRAPHIC: Level 3 lockdown: sabcnews.com | SABC News channel | SABC Radio news SA COVID-19 LOCKDOWN LEVEL 3 TRANSPORT RESTRICTIONS Bus services, taxi services, e-hailing and private motor vehicles may operate at all times of the day, with limitations on vehicle capacity and stringent hygiene requirements. No inter-provincial movement of people, except for transportation of goods and exceptional circumstances e.g.funerals. MOVEMENT RESTRICTIONS SECTORS PERMITTED Moderate virus spread, with moderate ﻿readiness Source: South African government LEVEL 3 Mining  Open cast mines at 100% capacity  All other mines at 50% All agriculture  Wool Wine Horticulture Export agriculture Floriculture Horticulture Related processing SANRAL construction and maintenance Global business services Transnet at 100% Forestry  Pulp   Paper Take away restaurants and online food delivery Clothing retail  Liquor retail within restricted hours LEVEL 3 LEVEL 3 Licensing and permitting services, deeds officesand other government services designated bythe Minister of Public Service andAdministration Stationery, personal electronics and office equipment production, and retail Books and educational products E commerce and delivery services Cement and steel Clothing and textiles manufacturingat 50% capacity Automotive manufacturing Chemicals Bottling Machinery and equipment CEMENT (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));