The South African Cabin Crew Association (Sacca), says a majority of unions at the South African Airways (SAA) have decided to take a pay cut to mitigate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic which has seen all flights grounded. The National Union of Metal Workers (Numsa), the Pilots’ Association (SAAPA) and Sacca have called for a forensic audit and investigation into all expenditure made by the Business Rescue Practitioners (BRPs) Les Matuson and Siviwe Dongwana. Sacca Deputy President Christopher Shabangu says SAA Executives and the Business Rescue Practitioners have refused to take a pay cut, despite unions having taken one. Shabangu says the BRPs have refused to engage with unions and the Department of Public Enterprises on the development of a strategy to save the embattled airline. Shabangu says, “The Business Rescuers are obliged to come up with a plan to rescue the business. They came and said we think SAA can be rescued and what follows after that is they make an analysis of what’s needed for the business to be rescued and that’s going to come out of the plan. You cannot come and say you want the money first for you to be able to have a plan. They have been given R10 billion and asking for the second R10 billion, it made no sense…” PODCAST: Unions representing SAA workers say they want the Business Rescue Practitioners audited  “All the workers have taken a sacrifice taking a pay cut. There’s a process that we are busy with the minister or with the department and we have invited the BRPs to come and join us, they have refused. The executive of SAA is not taking any pay cut, the BRPs themselves are actually not even taking a pay cut.” added Shabangu. He says the BRPs have refused to engage with unions and the Department of Public Enterprises on the development of a strategy to save the embattled airline and has called for the BRPs  to resign if they do not want to be part of consultations. “The minister is saying please try and reduce your fees because they are exorbitant, they not coming to the party. The invitation is still open to the BRPs to come and join the business compact, we’re basically doing exactly what the business rescuers are supposed to have done in the past five months, we are basically devising a plan as to how to save SAA.” Shabangu says, “If then they cannot join us, we do advise them to actually recuse themselves and resign. It’s not a joke we are talking about a lot of people’s jobs.” The BRPs have until the 26th of May 2020 to submit their Business Rescue Plan. Below is SAA fact sheet: South African Airways FACT SHEET Debt SAA has been accumulating debt since 2012.  The national carrier has debt ﻿of about R12.7 billion, consisting of R9.2 billion of legacy debt. In 2020 SAA received  R3.2 billion from the Development Bank of South Africa. Bailout * As of Sep ﻿18, 2019 Flights Shutdown SAA closes domestic flights to Durban, East London and Port Elizabeth. Strike In 2019 SAA employees embarked on a strike demanding an 8% salary increase.  SAA management agreed to postpone retrenchments until further notice. SAA Board Numsa together with the South African Cabin Crew Association calls for the immediate resignation of the entire SAA Board. Sale of Aircarft SAA puts up nine of its Airbus aircraft and 15 spare engines for sale.  (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));