The United Kingdom has overtaken Italy to report the highest official death toll from the new coronavirus in Europe, figures released on Tuesday showed, increasing pressure on Prime Minister Boris Johnson over his response to the crisis. Weekly figures from Britain’s Office for National Statistics (ONS) added more than 7 000 deaths in England and Wales in the week to April 24, raising the total for the United Kingdom to 32 313. Only the United States, with a population nearly five times greater, has suffered more confirmed fatalities from the virus than Britain, according to the data so far. While different ways of counting make comparisons with other countries difficult, the figure confirmed Britain was among those hit worst by a pandemic that has killed more than 250 000 worldwide. “I don’t think we’ll get a real verdict on how countries have done until the pandemic is over, and particularly until we’ve got international comprehensive data on all-cause mortality,” Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab told reporters. Opposition politicians said the figures proved the government had been too slow to provide enough protective equipment to hospitals and introduce mass testing. “I’d be amazed if, when we look back, we don’t think: yep we could have done something differently there,” the government’s chief scientific adviser, Patrick Vallance, said in response to lawmakers’ questions on testing. Responding to the ONS figures, a Downing Street spokesman pointed to Johnson’s recent comments that Britain had passed the peak of the disease but remained in a “dangerous phase”. He also cited the advice of England’s chief medical officer, Chris Whitty: “Different countries are recording different things in relation to deaths.” Italy and Spain, the next worst-hit European countries, have smaller populations than Britain, further complicating comparisons. “Putting a graph out with the United States at the top and UK second is not helpful, but once you start to break it down by looking at the population we should be seriously asking questions about what’s different,” said Carl Heneghan, professor of evidence-based medicine at Oxford University. “Why are six countries disproportionately affected?” Heneghan added, referring to a list dominated by Europe. The daily cumulative death toll published by Britain’s government, which records deaths only for confirmed coronavirus cases, rose on Tuesday to 29 427 – exceeding Italy’s own daily toll for the first time.