The Western Cape Liquor Authority says those who have had their liquor licences suspended, will have the opportunity to present their cases at the end of the lockdown, on the reasons behind them selling alcohol while it is prohibited. The Liquor Authority has suspended 20 liquor licences for non-compliance since March 23, saying 31 others are still being investigated. The Western Cape Liquor Authority’s Deputy Director, Philip Prinsloo has warned that the illegal sale of alcohol will not be tolerated. Prinsloo says, “Alcohol sales are prohibited. To drink during this period, it will affect you negatively. When people get drunk and there are other medical difficulties while we are fighting this virus, alcohol will affect them negatively. I think, to give these people a fair chance, what we have decided on is, to give them after this lockdown an opportunity to come and present their case, instead of just taking their licence away.” “So they can present their case before the tribunal and after that the tribunal will then either choose to revoke the licence or to give them a fine of up to R 150 000.” The CEO the Liquor Brand Owners Association, Kurt Moore speaks on the issue of illicit trade and that it has alcohol brand owners concerned amid lockdown: ‘Ban on alcohol sale is a big mistake’ South African Breweries (SAB) says the ban of alcohol under the national lockdown is a mistake as it creates a bigger opportunity for the black market to flourish. It added that the loss in sales has a negative effect on the economy. SAB says they understand that the ban on the sale of alcohol is a bid to flatten the curve of the spread of Coronavirus, but that that doesn’t take away the demand for alcoholic beverages. In April, the South African Revenue Service (SARS) lost around R1.5 billion in revenue due to the ban on alcohol and cigarettes. The Director of Regulatory and Public Policy at SAB,  Hellen Ndlovu speaks on the issues:  INFOGRAPHIC: Level 4 COVID-19 punishable offences: Level 4 COVID-19 punishable rules and regulations For the duration of the national state of disaster, not obliging to the following regulations is an offence and is, on conviction, liable to a fine or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding six months. There is to be no assembly, concourse or procession of more than 100 persons. Not confining to place of residence from 20H00 until 05H00 daily (except persons with a permit) The sale, dispensing and distribution of liquor is not allowed. This also includes the transportation of liquor Non-adherence to curfew Alcohol Leaving their residence for none of the below Convening gatherings perform an essential or permitted service, as allowed in Level 4;  go to work wherewith the relevant permit  buy permitted goods;  obtain services that are allowed to operate  walk, run or cycle between the hours of 06H00 to 09H00, within a 5km radius Business Compliance Operating a business under level 4 without ensuring that there is a designated COVID -19 compliance officer. Business not taking precautions Business must make necessary arrangements for staff in the establishment, this includes - 1. Sanitary and social distancing measures and facilities at the entrance and exit to the workplace; 3. Screening facilities and systems; 4. Attendance -record system and infrastructure: 5. Testing facilities (for establishments with more than 500 employees); 6. Staff rotational arrangements Retailers not protecting customers Manufacturing operating without adherence Manufacturing Factories may scale up to full employment, except where otherwise indicated, and subject to strict health protocols. Any retail outlet without arrangements for customers or members of the public, including sanitation and social distancing measures. Not wearing a mask No person will be allowed to use any form of public transport, or enter a building, place or premises, if they do not wear a cloth face mask or a homemade item that covers the nose and mouth when in a public place, or another appropriate item to cover the nose and mouth. Avoiding tracing of COVID-19 cases Any person who has been confirmed to having contracted COVID -19, or who is suspected of having contracted COVID -19 may not refuse to- (a) Submit to a medical examination (b) Be ﻿admitted to a health establishment or a quarantine or isolation site  (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));