The Student Representative Council (SRC) at Wits University says about 15% of students have not been able to access the online learning system leading to scores of students opting to de-register. The SRC says it has received numerous calls from students asking to de-register due to an inability to cope with online learning and not being able to handle their workload as some of their environments are not conducive to learning. While institutions have provided some students with laptops and partnered with network providers to ensure the continuity in learning, students have raised issues such as connectivity as an obstacle to completing their studies. As a result of this and the socio-economic factors experienced by some, the SRC at Wits University says it receives numerous calls from students enquiring about the de-registration process. Secretary General of the SRC at Wits, Katie Morgets, says the calls received by the student body are from students who are often marginalised and are unable to cope with the current workload. Morgets says, “A lot of students are complaining about the amount in terms of the workload that they have been receiving from the university – premised on the notion that under the circumstances, this situation is different. We find ourselves in varying living conditions, we find ourselves plagued by very different socio-economic circumstances…” “Another thing that we have found is that even though the university has empowered students with data, there are some students who live in remote areas where there is inadequate access to proper network connection. thus they are not able to actively partake in the online sessions. It has led to a rise in anxiety, a rise in mental health issues to a point where students feel that maybe the best option for them is to de-register from the institution and to try at a later stage…” added Morgets. The video below explains how Wits University online learning works:  CEO of Universities South Africa Ahmed Bawa says it is not all bleak and has encouraged students to remain in the system. He says they will have an opportunity to complete the academic year. Bawa says, “I certainly don’t think that students should de-register because even if students are having huge difficulties with online learning, the universities have all committed themselves to re-establishing the academic year, reconstituting the academic year and depending on what the President says in the next few days with regard to the lockdown and so on, it’s quite possible that the phased re-introduction of students onto our campuses will begin quite soon…” “From my point of view, at least, I think the critical issue is for students to stay in the system because they will all have a chance to complete the academic year,” Bawa added. Students from institutions across the country have been learning through online platforms due to the COVID-19 pandemic and the nationwide lockdown for two months. Meanwhile, reports about cheating during online assessments by students at the institution have also surfaced with Wits allegedly planning to take action against such conduct. However, attempts to reach the university for comment were unsuccessful.  (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));