The South African Military Ombud’s retired Lieutenant General Vusumuzi Masondo, says it is working with the defence force to determine the facts around the death of Alexandra resident, Collin Khosa. This is after Khosa and some members of his family were assaulted at their home last month on Good-Friday allegedly by members of the South African National Defence Force. On Friday, the High Court in Pretoria ruled that soldiers and police officers who were at, or near, the Alexandra home of Khosa, be placed under suspension. Judge Hans Fabricius also gave the Police and Defence Ministers 5 days to develop and publish, a code of conduct for its members during the lockdown. Masondo says his office has received 52 complaints regarding alleged physical assault, corruption and abuse of power by SANDF members during the nationwide lockdown. “My office has to date received a total of 52 complaints, 30 of those actually came from members of the public. In the case of Collin Khosa we were contacted by a member of the portfolio committee on defence who actually sent us a video we been following up to try and get the necessary details to be able to proceed with our investigation. What we have done in the interim is to also contact the office of the national defence force to actually assist us with information in terms of the soldiers who were in Alexandra at the time.” In the video below, family demands answers after a 40-year-old Alexandra man is beaten to death allegedly by SANDF members.  Investigation launched into Alex man’s death Defence Minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula says an investigation has been launched into the death of an Alexandra man in Johannesburg, who was beaten to death allegedly by members of the National Defence Force (SANDF). The minister says the investigation is being conducted by the SAPS, military police and the military ombud. Mapisa-Nqakula says the deployment of soldiers should not be seen as a harsh move by government, but a necessary measure to help curb the spread of the coronavirus (COVID-19). “We’re not taking these measures because we are a mean government, because we are being insensitive. We are taking these decisions because it has become necessary for us to do so. We hang our heads in shame. We will not at any point defend what has happened, but equally it is important for people to give us time to investigate the circumstances under which this man has died in Alex.” Family offered legal help Advocate Thembeka Ngcukaitobi said that he will be representing the family of the slain Alex man. The deceased’s partner, Nomsa Montsha, on Monday demanded answers from the state. “We need so many answers and no one tells us. When they came to us, the reason was that they were looking for the beers and they couldn’t find those beers. So we don’t know the reason for beating them because they could not find what they were looking for. I’m afraid of the soldiers. I thought they were people that must protect us. So now I don’t know. When I see them on the street, must I run or must I feel protected?” SANDF to co-operate The SANDF said on Sunday that it will co-operate with the investigations into the man’s death. The Force said in a statement that its members are supposed to act within the confinements of the law will enforcing the national lockdown regulations.  