Minister of Social Development, Lindiwe Zulu, will launch the opening of the application process for a special COVID-19 social relief distress grant on Monday. The WhatsApp and related electronic application options will be demonstrated by the Minister at the launch. The social development portfolio, comprised of the Department of Social Development, the National Development Agency and the South African Social Security Agency (SASSA), says that the grant has passed the final stage of development and is ready for implementation. Minister Zulu presented a comprehensive report on the matter to the National Coordinating Council on Sunday. In the video below, Sassa spokesperson unpacks government’s social relief grant… <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span>
The grant was announced by President Cyril Ramaphosa as part of government’s efforts to cushion the poor from the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Social Development Department says it has received 15 000 applications through the WhatsApp platform. Below is an infographic with information on who qualifies for the grant:  All qualifying applications are expected to be processed on 15 May and applicants without smartphones will be contacted through SMSes. SASSA has cautioned applicants not to provide their banking details to avoid being scammed. “Applicants are cautioned not to provide their banking details to anyone to avoid scams. SASSA will only request information once the application has been approved. All beneficiaries and applicants should never give their PIN number or the CVV number on the back of the banking card to anyone, not even SASSA.” “Once applications are approved, SASSA will request confirmation of bank accounts though a secure site. This will also be done electronically. Applicants have the right to request confirmation that a request is from SASSA in order to protect themselves. Payment will be affected through deposits made directly into an approved applicant’s bank account if they have one. Applicants without bank accounts can also apply and their payment will be effected through a money transfer.” SASSA says it will verify all information received from applicants. 