Aviation experts say the resumption of South African Airways (SAA) flights without the government’s capital injection could deepen the airline’s financial troubles. SAA has announced it is preparing to resume domestic flights between Johannesburg and Cape Town from mid-June. It also announced the cancellation of all planned scheduled flights on regional and international services until the end of June 2020 with immediate effect. Aviation analyst Joachim Vermooten says SAA will need financial support for the first six months to enable it to achieve a good load-factor. He says measures to combat the spread of COVID-19 will also make it difficult for SAA to generate enough revenue. “It depends on whether the government is providing money for that. It’s clear that under the present conditions, you get the reasonable load-factor to start up headline operations immediately. Government has clearly indicated in the past that they don’t have any money to spare. So, we have to see what happens to start operations. Without demand rising quickly, (it) will actually increase the losses of SAA in the short term. They need funding to be able to do that.” One of the unions at SAA, the National Transport Movement (NTM), has welcomed the move. “We believe that in the interim, while the government is still exploring the new airline, it must service the public. It will then be a step in the right direction for employees to earn a salary during the COVID-19 pandemic,” says NTM president Mashudu Raphetha. Retrenchment of SAA employees Meanwhile, the Business Rescue Practitioners for SAA say they are going to seek an urgent date for the hearing of their appeal against the Labour Court judgment earlier this month. The Court found that their move to retrench SAA employees was unfair. The Labour Court granted them leave to appeal the judgment on Monday.  Financial woes at SAA revealed during State Capture Commission: SAA at State Capture Inquiry 5 February 2020 SRS Aviation founding member and Director Sibongile Sambo tells the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture how former South African Airways (SAA) non-Executive Director Yakhe Kwinana was used by SAA Technical and a Chicago based aviation maintenance and supply chain company to secure a tender worth millions. 12 July 2019 Neo Solutions director, Vivien Natasen, whose company received millions in payments from state-owned airline, South African Express says the money was returned. 1 July 2019 26 June 2019 Former SAA general manager of human resources, Thuli Mpshe told the State Capture Commission how former SAA board chair, Dudu Myeni interfered in the hiring and firing of employees at the state-owned airline. South African Airways former CEO Sizakele Mzimela  takes the stand.  Mzimela gave evidence on the events that led to SAA terminating its Johannesburg-Mumbai route, telling the commission that the board had raised concerns over the urgency to close the route.  She also speaks of a meeting with the then minister of public enterprises Malusi Gigaba to discuss the Mumbai route closure. 25 June 2019 The State Capture Inquiry hears of how EML Energy failed to honour its jet fuel supply agreement with SAA. That's according to evidence by SAA head of Fuel Management, Mark Vaughan. 19 June 2019  “I feared for my life”  Former SAA Chief Financial Officer Phumeza Nhantsi says she was afraid she would lose her life if she didn't follow former board chair Dudu Myeni's instructions. 30 November  2017 30 November  2017 Former SAA Head of Financial Risk Management Cynthia Stimpel tells the Commission that she was suspended for fighting potential corruption. 14 June 2019 14 June 2019 Former SAA Chief Financial Officer Phumeza Nhantsi defends her decision to appoint BnP Capital to source a R15 billion consolidated loan for the national airline in 2015. (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); 