The South African South African Social Security Agency (SASSA) has reiterated its call to beneficiaries to desist from giving their grant cards to loan sharks. This follows the arrest of seven suspects who were found in possession of 91 SASSA cards and a cash amount of R190 000 at the Kollonade Mall, north of Pretroia, earlier this week. The suspects are believed to be loan sharks. The police pounced on two suspects while they were conducting an operation at the mall. Two suspicious looking individuals were spotted at an ATM, upon being searched police discovered 13 SASSA cards and R32 000 in their possession. This further led the arrest of five more people at the same mall, who were found with 61 cards and R110 000 they could not account for. “We have just established that these are the people who had cards of SASSA beneficiaries who had actually taken loans, these are loan sharks, but we just want to warn our the public and our beneficiaries in particular that the card which is given to a beneficiary, that’s a state property, it is actually given to a beneficiary so that they are able to access their grant, it is not supposed to be with third parties,’ says SASSA spokesperson, Paseka Letsatsi. Societal issue In Sebokeng, two alleged loan sharks were also caught with over 200 cards at an ATM this week. Letsatsi says this trend of SASSA grant recipients heading to loan sharks has increased over the years. He says the organisation is trying all it can to educate the public about loan sharks, but there’s little it can do to curb this. “What we’ll basically do as an organisation is to continuously educate our beneficiaries s that they must living within what government gives  to them, because if they give their card to anybody else, we do not necessarily have control over it and well definitely go and embezzle their money. We know that the loan sharks in terms of the interests the cadre, they are extremely exorbitant,” adds Letsatsi. Letsatsi says the unregistered loan shark business is a big societal issue. “This is a problem which does not affect SASSA only, it affects everybody in the society, people going to take loans from people who are not even registered and so on.” In the video below, police make several arrests over social grant fraud:  Your Name Your Last Name email@email.com +1 304 104201 SA COVID-19 ECONOMIC STIMULUS sabcnews.com | SABC News channel | SABC Radio news President Cyril Ramaphosa has announced a R500 billion economic stimulus package to help South Africa cope with the COVID-19 pandemic. WHERE DID THE MONEY COME FROM? R500 BILLION HIGHLIGHTS WHAT WILL THE MONEY BE USED FOR? Unemployment Insurance Fund Institutions include:  World Bank  International Monetary Fund  BRICS New Development Bank  African Development Bank International Institutions Existing Budget Around R130 billion repatriated from current budget. Healthcare Relief of  social distress Support to companies Municipalities Protective gear for heath workers Community screening and testing Ventilators Increase child support grant by R500 for 6 months  COVID-19 social distress grant of R350 for 6 months Distribution of food parcels to 250 000 homes in within two weeks New model for food assistance through vouchers and cash transfers Emergency water Sanitation of public transport Food and shelter for the homeless. Loan guarantee scheme Tax ﻿relief Unemployment Insurance Fund R500 billion amounts to 10% of the Gross Domestic Product. Began in mid-March. Included tax relief, release of disaster relief funds, emergency procurement, wage support through Unemployment Insurance Fund and funding to small businesses. Aims to stabilise the economy, address ﻿extreme decline in supply and demand and protect jobs. Social relief and economic support package of R500 billion. Economic strategy to drive recovery  as the country emerges from COVID-19 pandemic. 3rd Phase 1st Phase 2nd Phase (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));