Employment and Labour Minister Thulas Nxesi says it is important for the country to start preparing for job creation post COVID-19. Nxesi gave a briefing on his department’s budget vote and annual performance plan for the 2020/21 financial year to a number of committees among them Parliament’s Portfolio Committee on Employment and Labour in a virtual meeting on Thursday. Nxesi says whilst the immediate priority is to combat the coronavirus, citizens cannot ignore the future after the pandemic. He says, “Let us use this opportunity to prepare for the post COVID-19 future, which takes us beyond the immediate challenges to start imagining a better world, where we defeat corruption, unemployment and poverty. We dare not lose hope.” In the video below, the General Secretary of the South African Transport and Allied Workers’ Union, Jack Mazibuko says the road freight industry faces retrenchments: Job losses The National Treasury says five million jobs could be lost during the COVID-19 national lockdown. It estimates that approximately 1/3 of the resources that were productive in February 2020, are now at a standstill due to the lockdown. Treasury officials briefed various parliamentary finance committees on the impact of COVID-19 on the country’s economy. In the video below, SABC journalist Manelisi Dubase elaborates on Treasury’s briefing: INFOGRAPHIC: South Africa’s stimulus package: Your Name Your Last Name email@email.com +1 304 104201 SA COVID-19 ECONOMIC STIMULUS sabcnews.com | SABC News channel | SABC Radio news President Cyril Ramaphosa has announced a R500 billion economic stimulus package to help South Africa cope with the COVID-19 pandemic. WHERE DID THE MONEY COME FROM? R500 BILLION HIGHLIGHTS WHAT WILL THE MONEY BE USED FOR? Unemployment Insurance Fund Institutions include:  World Bank  International Monetary Fund  BRICS New Development Bank  African Development Bank International Institutions Existing Budget Around R130 billion repatriated from current budget. Healthcare Relief of  social distress Support to companies Municipalities Protective gear for heath workers Community screening and testing Ventilators Increase child support grant by R500 for 6 months  COVID-19 social distress grant of R350 for 6 months Distribution of food parcels to 250 000 homes in within two weeks New model for food assistance through vouchers and cash transfers Emergency water Sanitation of public transport Food and shelter for the homeless. Loan guarantee scheme Tax ﻿relief Unemployment Insurance Fund R500 billion amounts to 10% of the Gross Domestic Product. Began in mid-March. Included tax relief, release of disaster relief funds, emergency procurement, wage support through Unemployment Insurance Fund and funding to small businesses. Aims to stabilise the economy, address ﻿extreme decline in supply and demand and protect jobs. Social relief and economic support package of R500 billion. Economic strategy to drive recovery  as the country emerges from COVID-19 pandemic. 3rd Phase 1st Phase 2nd Phase (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); Additional reporting by Manelisi Dubase.