Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan has met with unions at South African Airways (SAA)  to discuss the salaries of employees. The meeting comes after a representative of the airline’s Business Rescue Practitioners told MPs there is no money for salaries this month. SAA employees have not been paid their salaries for May. The General Secretary of the South African Transport and Allied Workers Union, Jack Mazibuko, says there is a possibility that workers will be paid half their salaries. Mazibuko says, “We had a meeting with the DPE (Department of Public Enterprises) regarding this issue where they proposed a salary cut of the workers, there was an agreement that was drafted, unfortunately all the unions didn’t sign that because we wanted to further our discussions with the Minister. “ Retrenchment of SAA employees The Business Rescue Practitioners for SAA say they are going to seek an urgent date for the hearing of their appeal against the Labour Court judgment earlier this month. The Court found that their move to retrench SAA employees was unfair. The Labour Court granted them leave to appeal the judgment on Monday. In this video, the South African Cabin Crew Association discusses the looming retrenchments at SAA: INFOGRAPHIC: Facts on SAA: South African Airways FACT SHEET Debt SAA has been accumulating debt since 2012.  The national carrier has debt ﻿of about R12.7 billion, consisting of R9.2 billion of legacy debt. In 2020 SAA received  R3.2 billion from the Development Bank of South Africa. Bailout * As of Sep ﻿18, 2019 Flights Shutdown SAA suspends ﻿domestic flights to Durban, East London and Port Elizabeth. Strike In 2019 SAA employees embarked on a strike demanding an 8% salary increase.  SAA management agreed to postpone retrenchments until further notice. SAA Board Numsa together with the South African Cabin Crew Association calls for the immediate resignation of the entire SAA Board. Sale of Aircarft SAA puts up nine of its Airbus aircraft and 15 spare engines for sale.  (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));