The One South Africa Movement is taking government to court over the reopening of schools. Leader Mmusi Maimane says President Cyril Ramaphosa has failed to respond to the organisation’s letter, asking for reasons why children will be going back to school in the midst of the coronavirus outbreak that has claimed the lives of 552 South Africans. The Movement’s petition against the reopening of schools has garnered 150 000 signatures. “These are passionate South Africans who believe that in fact the decision to open schools on 1 June is irrational and would put our children’s lives at risk. We are willing to take any action to ensure that children are safe in schools, educators and all support staff. “ Grade 7 and 12 learners will be heading to school on 1 June as the country will be entering Level 3 lockdown. Below are the measures that will be in place when schools reopen:  Department of Basic Education’s proposed plans for learner safety amid COVID - 19 COVID-19 | SA's BACK TO SCHOOL PLAN Social Distancing No hugging No handshaking Direct contact must be avoided Only two learners per desk Cloth masks to be worn by learners and teachers at all times Extra classes should be arranged in small groups that maintain social distancing. No mass public events No sports matches  No choral practice  No festivals  No eisteddfods Classroom arrangements Limit movement of learners between classes  Sanitise hands on entering of classrooms  Sanitise classrooms prior to the start of school day  No clustering of desks in classrooms BACK TO SCHOOL Everyone must sanitise before entering vehicle Distance between learners  must be managed Masks must be worn throughout the school day Transport Screening and testing Screening of learners and educators to be done at the reopening of schools, starting with Grades 7 and 12. Temperature checks to be administered. Learners or staff members who present with raised temperatures to be considered for isolation and testing. @SABCNEWS sabcnews.com |  SABC News channel | SABC Radio news Source: Department of Basic Education (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); Various groups, including teachers’ unions, are also against the return to school in June. The Educators’ Union of South Africa (EUSA) has threatened to take the department of Basic Education to court over this. Some parents have also expressed concern. They fear that their children may contract the virus in school. In the video below, #NotInMyName activists picket over the matter:  