The International Council of Nurses estimates that sub-Saharan Africa has a shortage of 600 000 nurses. Globally, the world needs at least 350 000 midwives, a third of them in the world’s poorest nations, according to the United Nations. Yet, in many African countries, a nurse will be the first and sometimes only healthcare professional that a patient will find at a healthcare centre. This is one of the reasons why Anne Thumbi, a nominated Member of the Nairobi County Assembly, opted to go back to being a nurse when the assembly took a break following the outbreak of the coronavirus in Kenya. She hang her political boots and picked up her nursing cap. For the last two months, Anne Thumbi a nominated Member of Nairobi’s County Assembly (similar to a councillor in South Africa) has not passed any city bylaws. Instead, she has been offering her services at the Waithaka Health Center in Nairobi as a nurse. “When we were told that we have COVID-19 in Kenya, I decided to join my colleagues and offer my skills because I am trained and I have been practicing for now, and decided why not drop my honorable title and volunteer my services at Waithaka Health Center.” The health centre is not like any other. It is next to the Kawangware informal settlement, one of the epicenters of COVID-19 in Nairobi. That has, however, not deterred her resolve to continue serving. “We are receiving so many patients. Because of panic, people are coming to the hospital. As a nurse, you take an oath and tell God that you want to give your services. Once a nurse always a nurse,” she says. The Nairobi County Assembly is on a break, as Kenya has banned public gatherings to contain the spread of coronavirus and so, every morning, she reports to work at 8AM and does not break until well after 4PM. Thumbi begins her day by giving a talk on COVID-19 and simple ways that one can prevent contracting the virus, then gets down to the duties of the day. As we mark the international day of midwives and nurses, Thumbi says the world cannot afford to ignore nurses and their role in the global healthcare. “In Kenya, we say nurses are next to angels. After God, there are angels and then nurses, because these are people who do a lot of work. Happy nurses week.” Meanwhile, the African Union has asked the continent’s policymakers to invest  in the training of nurses and midwives with the aim of improving health, promoting gender equality and supporting economic growth. The infographic below gives more information about different types of nurses:  Types of Nurses SABC News has outlined the different types of nurses registered with the South Africa Nursing Council (SANC) and also the different types of areas of specilisation. Forensic Nurse A Professional Nurse who has an additional qualification in Forensic Nursing. They specialise in the application of forensic science and Clinical Nursing Practice. Emergency Nurse A Professional Nurse specialising in involving nursing care for patients of all ages in the emergency and or critical phase of their illness or injury. Community Health Nursing Is a Professional Nurse who has specialised in measuring the health status and determining the health needs of communities and groups. They focus on communities, populations, groups and families. Nurse Educator A Nurse Educator is a Professional Nurse with an additional qualification in Nursing Education and is registered as such with the SA Nursing Council. It is a specialist field that focuses on education and training students. Mental Health Nurse A Professional Nurse trained as a mental health care nurse specialist and able to provide prescribed mental health care, treatment and rehabilitation services. Such nurses hold an additional qualification in Mental Health Nursing in accordance with the Mental Health Care Act No.17 of 2002. Oncology Nurse Oncology and Palliative Nursing is a speciality whereby nurses care for people who are at risk for developing cancer, patients diagnosed with cancer, patients receiving treatment for cancer, patients in need of supportive and palliative care, serious illness, cancer survivors and their families/caregivers. A distinct area of specialised nursing practice addressing the prevention, promotion and management of the health and wellbeing of individuals with kidney disease. Nephrology Nurse Specialist Ophthalmic Nurse Specialist Is a specialist field focuses on comprehensive eye care for the promotioni of eye health and the prevention of visual impairment and blindness. They have an additional qualification in Ophthalmic Nursing and registered with the SANC Critical Nurse Specialist (Adult) A specialist nurse that takes care of patients with life-threatening illnesses and injuries and it occurs within a continuum from the scene of initial incident or onset of critical illness such as home through stabilisation, transfer/transporation, emergency and intensive care up to and including transfer to care in lower acuity levels/step down units Advanced Practice Nurses A midwife specialist has advanced expertise in Midwifery, holds an additional qualification in Midwifery and is registered as such with SANC. They focus on maternal health, reproductive health (including genetic counselling) and neonatal/child health Midwife Specialist: Occupational Health Nurse Specialist Is a specialist field that provides for and delivers health and safety programmes and services to workers and worker populations in their place of employment Paediatric Nurse Specialist Is a Professional Nurse who has obtained a post graduate diploma qualification in child nursing science Orthopaedic Nurse Specialist Is a Specialist General Nurse with an additional qualification in Orthopaedic Nursing Science registered with SANC. It is a specialist field of neuromuscular-skeletal and vascular functioning focusing on varied clinical or subfields for adult and paediatric conditions Perioperative Nurse Specialist Is a Professional Nurse and Midwife who has obtained a postgraduate diploma in the perioperative field. They provide care during pre, intra and post-operative periods Primary Care Nurse Specialist: A Professional Nurse with an additional qualification in Primary Care Nursing and registered by SANC. Provides direct care to patients with all types of illnesses and ailments offering the first level of care that patients receive. *Source South African Nursing Council sabcnews.com l SABC News channel l SABC Radio news (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));