The South African National Taxi Council (Santaco) has called on taxi operators to stop inflating fares. Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula announced on Friday that minibus taxis are still required to carry 70% of their vehicles’ capacity to ensure that social distancing is maintained. This means a minibus taxi licensed to carry 10 passengers is now allowed to carry seven, those licensed to carry 15 are now carrying 10, while the 22 seaters are permitted to carry 15 passengers. In the video below, taxi operators say they are confused by the lockdown regulations:  Some taxi drivers have increased their fares to compensate for their financial losses for carrying fewer passengers. Some fares, for local and long-distance travel, have risen by 100%. Santaco’s Chief Strategic Manager, Bafana Magagula, says COVID-19 is not the passengers’ fault. “We are warning those operators not to do that because it’s not the passengers’ fault that there is this COVID-19. It’s also not government fault nor is it their fault as operators. We are talking and the minister confirmed that we are talking looking at how operators will be compensated.” Penalties for drivers not following lockdown regulations Some taxi associations in Makapanstad, Moretele in the North West, in mid-April threatened to penalise taxi drivers that defy the national lockdown regulations. Minibus taxis are required to sanitise their vehicles before carrying passengers, with a sanitiser that has an alcohol content of no less than 60%, according to the new regulations. Passengers are also required to wear masks at all times. In the video below, taxi operators start sanitising their taxis:  According to Makapanstad United Taxi Association (MAUTA) Disciplinary Committee member, Lucas Kgope, taxi drivers who violate lockdown regulations will be slapped with a 30-day suspension without pay. “As far the situation is like this, we as taxi operators are trying by all means to work hand in glove with our government. Even now our drivers are now complying. Everything is going well, and we hope and trust that through our help this virus will slow down. The drivers who don’t complying we penalise them; we charged them 31 days at home.” The association’s Chairperson, Kgabo Moloto, warned that they are running short of Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs), which puts them and their passengers at risk of contracting COVID-19. Taxi driver, Floyd Mphiwe, says it is difficult for them to work without gloves, masks and sanitisers. “We have a problem that each and every time we’re carrying customers from here to Hammanskraal. We’ve got a problem of sanitisers. If government can maybe give us at least 50 masks or sanitisers and will maybe last for a day. This is harmful because of when I’m carrying the customers from inside the taxi. I am afraid of COVID-19 as the mask are finished.” In the video below, government promises to assist the taxi industry during the COVID-19 pandemic:  INFOGRAPHIC: Sectors allowed to operate during Level 4 lockdown period: 