President Cyril Ramaphosa has congratulated the South African Police Service for the breakthrough in the investigation and arrests following the murder of former Bafana Bafana and Orlando Pirates goalkeeper Senzo Meyiwa. Police Minister General Bheki Cele announced on Monday, on the sixth anniversary of the murder of the sports icon, that five suspects had been arrested in Gauteng and KwaZulu-Natal. Meyiwa was shot and killed in Ekurhuleni, at the home of his singer girlfriend Kelly Khumalo. The suspects will appear in the Boksburg Magistrate’s Court on Tuesday. Presidential spokesperson Tyrone Seale says, “The President said today is a day on which we revisit the sadness that affected millions of us as South Africans when we lost Senzo Meyiwa in 2014. But this anniversary is mitigated by the arrest of five suspects who have been unable to escape the reach of the law, regardless of the passage of time. The President, therefore, congratulates the police for their hard work and persistence. And says we must now allow the criminal justice system and the judiciary to do their work and handle this matter to finality.” Senzo Meyiwa murder case: Cele updates media:  National Police Commissioner Khehla Sitole has confirmed that the murder weapon used in the fatal shooting of Senzo Meyiwa, has been found. Addressing the media in Pretoria, Sitole said one of the five suspects is believed to be the person who pulled the trigger. AfriForum adds a new twist to the Senzo Meyiwa murder saga Lobby group, AfriForum, alleges that the murder of Meyiwa, was an assassination and not a robbery gone wrong. The revelation follows the announcement of the arrest of five suspects linked to the murder. AfriForum’s head of Private Prosecutions Unit, Advocate Gerrie Nel and Meyiwa’s brother, Sisfiso Meyiwa, spoke to the media in Pretoria on Monday. Nel says although they are happy with the arrests, they are disappointed that the police did not inform the nation of the notion Meyiwa’s killing was a hit and that an alleged mastermind is still free. “But the one aspect that the police were silent on earlier this morning is ‘was it a robbery? What was it?’ We’ve been briefed that this was not a robbery that went wrong. This was not a robbery that went wrong. This was an assassination. So, the one aspect here we are disappointed it hasn’t happened yet is to address the mastermind because if there’s a hit there’s a mastermind.” Meyiwa’s brother Sifiso Meyiwa who was still shocked by the revelations made to him by AfriForum minutes before the briefing, says despite the alleged mastermind still roaming the streets, he remains hopeful that he’ll be arrested soon. The Meyiwas approached AfriForum for assistance in the matter after the case seemed to hit a dead end with the police. “I have to clear my mind, but I’d like to thank SAPS and AfriForum on behalf of the family with the progress of the case. Although we are grateful of the arrests made, we remain anxious that the mastermind was not arrested. In view of the established cooperation between the legal team from AfriForum and SAPS, we remain hopeful that more arrests will follow.”  