There’s a heavy police presence in Senekal as thousands of Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) members and members of the farming community continue to gather outside the Senekal Magistrate’s Court on Friday. Sekola Matlaletsa and Sekwetje Mahlamba are due to appear in court for the murder of 21-year-old farm manager Brandon Horner. During the suspects first court appearance, a group of farmers stormed the court building demanding that the two suspects be handed over them. On Thursday, Police Minister Bheki Cele says officers are fully prepared for any eventuality in the area. “It would be really foolish for the police to say people have no right to come there. That right is in the constitution and it goes with responsibilities. There are few things that should be taken into consideration. People should know that as they will be marching, they should not interfere [destroy] the property. You don’t destroy property, you don’t injure people you don’t march armed,” explains Cele. The incident sparked outrage across the country, with some members of the society criticising the police for not acting decisively against the farmers. The video below is reporting on farm killings:  Meanwhile, the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) says it will oppose bail for the two accused in the murder of farm manager Brendin Horner. Members of a group called Unite Against Farm Murders and Attacks, have also made their way to court. Farmers, EFF members gathered outside court: Farmers and thousands of EFF members have gathered in the area.  Fighters and Ground Forces are here in Senekal to root out any demonstrations of disorder and threat to state institutions!#EFFinSenekal pic.twitter.com/4ZnZAArSRT — Economic Freedom Fighters (@EFFSouthAfrica) October 16, 2020  A heavy police presence is visible in Senekal.  Roadblock outside Senekal. Farmers are now making their way into town. A heavy police presence also visible. #Senekal #sabcfs #sabcnews pic.twitter.com/czRpsMoenj — Reginald (@WitbooiReggie) October 16, 2020  People have been bussed in for the court appearance of the two men. Police have set up a roadblock a few kilometres outside Senekal. The two men are expected to apply for bail. EFF leader Julius Malema to address hundreds of supporters in Senekal:  SAHRC calls for calm in Senekal The South African Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) in the Free State has called for calm.  The Commander-in-Chief and President @Julius_S_Malema with the leadership of the EFF have arrived at the Senekal Magistrate Court.#EFFinSenekal pic.twitter.com/9z22NeZV6s — Economic Freedom Fighters (@EFFSouthAfrica) October 16, 2020  The commission’s provincial manager Thabang Kheswa says violence should be avoided. “While we say that it is everyone’s right to protest or be involved in any kind of protest that right must be exercised with absolute responsibility and always knowing that other people have similar rights. So we are pleading for calm and respect for law.” “While they [protesters] are expressing themselves in the manner they are, we don’t to see any kind of violence. We are hopeful that the leaders of the protest groups will at all times ensure that this is done peacefully,” adds Kheswa. -Additional reporting by Tshepiso Moche