Former BOSASA COO Angelo Agrizzi will on Monday morning continue his fight to be released on bail in the High Court in Johannesburg. Two weeks ago, the Specialised Commercial Crimes Court sitting in the Palm Ridge Magistrate’s Court east of Johannesburg turned down his bail application after the state argued that he was a flight risk. The video below is on Angelo Agrizzi being denied bail:  Agrizzi is currently facing fraud and corruption charges dating back to when he was working for BOSASA which is now trading as African Global Operations. His bail hearing will be held in absentia as he is still in hospital. The former BOSASA executive is fighting for his life in the Intensive Care Unit at a private medical facility in Johannesburg. His health started to deteriorate after spending a night behind bars and was later moved to a public hospital for further medical care. Correctional Services Spokesperson Singabakho Nxumalo said last Monday that the move to a private hospital was a request from his doctor and his family. “All inmates are entitled to healthcare at the state expense except for treatment for cosmetic purposes. Inmates and remand detainees may be granted permission to be treated by private medical practitioners at their own cost and risk. The private hospital will, therefore, treat this remand detainee. He will still be guarded by officials and the associated cost will have to be paid by the remand detainee or the relevant family,” Nxumalo said. The video below is on Angelo Agrizzi being in critical condition after suffering a heart attack:  Angelo Agrizzi was jailed for allegedly making payments to former ANC MP Vincent Smith, who is now on R30 000 bail for charges also relating to fraud and corruption. Corruption case postponed to November Due to Agrizzi’s hospitalisation, the corruption case against him and his co-accused was postponed to 26 November. The accused, former Correctional Services Commissioner Linda Mti, former Bosasa executive Andries van Tonder, and former Correctional Services CFO Patrick Gillingham, face charges of fraud and money laundering related to corrupt activities involving the Department of Correctional Services.