The ANC has vowed to restore its mass appeal by dealing with corruption and improving service delivery. The governing party also says it has kept its promise and paid the department of defence after its delegation was transported to Zimbabwe using SA Air Force jet. This led to the government party coming under heavy criticism when it emerged that the delegation flew on a state aircraft to Harare using taxpayers’ money. The delegation included party secretary-general Ace Magashule and national executive committee members Gwede Mantashe, Lindiwe Zulu, Tony Yengeni and Enoch Godongwana. The delegates were with Defence and Military Veterans minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula. In the wake of the uproar, President Cyril Ramaphosa ordered Mapisa-Nqakula to provide him with a report on the circumstances that led to the trip. President Ramaphosa examining the Zimbabwe ANC trip report:  ANC Treasurer-General Paul Mashatile says the party has paid 50% of the costs incurred for the trip. He says Mapisa-Nqakula sent an invoice over a week ago and it was settled. Mixed reaction to ANC’s Zimbabwe trip reimbursement:  Local elections campaign The ANC on the campaign trail. After a setback during 2016 local government elections; the party for the first time failed to come out victorious in the election. Corruption and service delivery said to be a contributing factor in the decline in voter support. As 2021 local government election draws close another scandal erupted, the party faced the widespread PPE scandal. The party has welcomed the recent spate of arrests. Mashatile says the state organ must be allowed to do its work. “We must leave the state organ to do their work. Where they believe that there is evidence of corruption, let them pursue those cases. The secretary-general (Ace Magashule) himself did say that he will cooperate with the state organs if it’s indeed there is a case to answer.” Mashatile has been campaigning in the coloured communities of Pennyville and Riverlea. In 2019, these areas as well as Westbury and Newclare were engulfed by protests with residents saying the ANC government has marginalised them. But Mashatile says they have listened and will respond to challenges faced by these communities. He says the dealing with corruption and delivering service is key in gaining voters trust again. DA accuses ANC in Parliament of protecting Ramaphosa The DA is accusing the ANC in Parliament of protecting Ramaphosa from accountability regarding the ANC’s recent so called “lift” on an airforce plan to Zimbabwe. Ramaphosa was supposed to answer oral questions in the NCOP and could have been probed about the trip, but instead, he is expected to address a joint sitting on the economic recovery plan after the pandemic. DA leader in the NCOP Cathlene Labushcgne says this move is a clear last minute attempt by the President to avoid questions and accountability.