Thousands of Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) members have arrived in Senekal ahead of the court appearance of two men accused of the murder of 21-year-old farm manager Brendin Horner.  Today we stand in defense of the judiciary and in defence of state assets against white terrorist. Silwela izwe lethu! #EFFinSenekal pic.twitter.com/iWzy3mfhwu — Economic Freedom Fighters (@EFFSouthAfrica) October 16, 2020  Sekwetje Mahlamba and Sekola Matlaletsa are accused of the murder of farm manager Brendin Horner on a farm in the eastern Free State. Members of the farming community from Senekal and surrounding areas have also gathered outside court where police are maintaining a strong presence. EFF leader Julius Malema has arrived at the Senekal.  #Senekal @EFFSouthAfrica Leader @Julius_S_Malema has arrived. #sabcnews pic.twitter.com/bpaPFpmBvL — #TheLordOfTheMedia (@samkelemaseko) October 16, 2020  Last week, Malema urged party supporters to gather in Senekal to ‘protect state resources’. This morning, Malema tweeted that they would ‘rather die to a man than let the enemy pass, let’s go…”  Peter Ramoshoana Mokaba once said,” Rather die to a man than let the enemy pass”. Let’s go… — Julius Sello Malema (@Julius_S_Malema) October 16, 2020  Chaos broke out during the suspects last court appearance. EFF members have arrived outside the Senekal Magistrates Court:  Cele calls for calm in Senekal: Meanwhile, police Minister Bheki Cele says officers are fully prepared for any eventuality in the area. In the video below, Senekal community holds prayer meeting following violent protests:  His statement comes as some member of the farming community threatens more chaos should the two accused be granted bail. They were arrested two weeks ago after Horner’s body was found tied to a pole on the De Rots farm. Cele says police will ensure that people protest responsibly. “It would be really foolish for the police to say people have no right to come there. That right is in the constitution and it goes with responsibilities. There are few things that should be taken into consideration. People should know that as they will be marching, they should not interfere [destroy] the property. You don’t destroy property, you don’t injure people you don’t march armed,” explains Cele. Farmers from Northern Cape to show up en route to Senekal: Farmers from the Northern Cape are also on their way to Senekal. They say are going there to show their support against farm murders. In the video below, the farmers explain why it is important for them to go to Senekal. 