The ANC’s uMkhonto weSizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) president Kebby Maphatsoe says Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula must take responsibility for vandalism that has crippled the country’s railway service. He was referring to the minister’s decision to suspend private security contracts during the hard lockdown. MKMVA President Kebby Maphatsoe explains the aim of the march:  Passenger rail trains are unable to operate because of the widespread vandalism across the network. Mbalula has meanwhile, claimed that Maphatsoe had personally benefited from what he termed dodgy security contracts. Maphatsoe challenged Mbalula to go to the police if he has any proof. “So he must prove. The Zondo [State Capture] Commission is there, the police are there to prove if I am corrupt or not. The issue that we raise about Mbalula is the destruction of the infrastructure of South Africa which affects the economy of our country. So he is deviating from real issue and that he made the culprits to steal and destroy the infrastructure of our country,” explains Maphatsoe. On Monday, Mbalula tweeted that Maphatsoe and MKMVA spokesperson Carl Niehaus were thugs and also accused Niehaus of faking the death of his own mother. “They organise tired self-defence units and they call themselves MK with old Gupta-sponsored camouflage uniform even worn out,” read one of tweets from Mbalula. The Minister said he is being targeted for cleaning up corruption at Prasa and cancelling irregular security contracts. He alleged that some MKMVA members were benefiting from security contracts at Prasa.  FULL: STATEMENT BY MINISTER @MBALULAFIKILE on CAMPAIGN BY PEOPLE WHO ALLEGE THEMSELVES AS MK VETERANS pic.twitter.com/EfDnw7XCod — Minister of Transport |Mr Fix (@MbalulaFikile) October 12, 2020  “Prasa was your milking cow, I have closed the taps that is my sin – you used to do as wished with fake security companies,” tweeted Mbalula. The Minister has since deleted the tweets. On Tuesday, ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule went to KwaZulu-Natal to meet with unhappy MKMVA members. In the video below, Magashule is briefing the media following his meeting with the MKMVA members: 