The Amaxhosa Royal family has refuted claims made by Prince Xhanti Sigcawu that proper procedures were not followed in appointing the new king Ahlangene Vulikhaya Sigcawu. This was after Sigcawu family spokesperson Prince Xhanti said the family did not endorse the decision of the new king. “What they are doing is not endorsed by us. It’s just a group of people doing their own thing. We don’t have a king yet and in due time, we will follow process and announce the rightful king.” The family says everything that needed to be done in following processes was done and adopted as early as February 2021. They added that as per their traditions and customs, only a heir can proceed to be a king of the nation which is exactly what has happened in this case. The Sigcawu Royal family spokesperson is Prince Ndabele Mtoto says: “It is the royal family that has a right to choose their heir; we are talking about a heir that proceeds to be the King.” “The heir is the person we are supposed to give the leadership spear of healing then, it is only then that the person becomes the King that is now the blessing of being a heir of the royal family. “ “Ahlangene is the son of Nogaweni from the right hand house of King Xolilizwe, the elders of the family has already gone through all these processes in February of this year already.”  Chief Dumehleli Mapasa has been acting in the position before passing away in September, leaving the throne vacant. The family admits the announcement took longer due to infighting since King Sigcawu departed. The royalty says this was because the new king’s name Prince Ahlangene was contested by another group. “There were people who were eyeing the position. They are not even hereditary they were not deserving. Therefore they tried to stall processes and we cannot allow such,” says Chief Magwa Salakuphathwa. The new king says he is equal to the mammoth task ahead. “I am happy the elders entrusted me with this responsibility. I will do everything in my power to lead. I know it will be difficult, but I am ready,” says Prince Ahlangene Vulikhaya Sigcawu.