The Democratic Alliance (DA) has described the running of Tshwane’s service delivery as a crisis situation, saying the city is running out of cash reserves. The party was responding to the Supreme Court of Appeal’s (SCA) dismissal of an appeal on Tuesday lodged by Gauteng Cooperative Governance MEC Lebogang Maile. Maile requested that the court suspend the implementation of a Pretoria High Court judgment, which overturned his decision to dissolve the Tshwane Metro and place it under administration. DA Tshwane mayoral candidate Randall Williams says the city is in crisis. “The city is in crisis at the moment. A few weeks ago, a Moody’s report came out when we were placed under administration in March. The city had cash reserves of R4.8-billion. A Moody’s report, by 30 June, said the administrators spent R2.8-billion of the cash reserves.” “Now we are four months later, that means we won’t have any cash reserves left in the city of Tshwane. So the question is how do we pay for delivery of basic services? You need to cover your operating expenses and that is why the administrators have not been able to deliver basic services.” In the video below, Williams further elaborates on Tshwane’s current service delivery and governance woes:  DA councillors to return to work following Supreme Court ruling Following the ruling by the SCA on Tuesday, DA councillors will resume their duties and responsibilities after the party regained control of the metro. The DA and the African National Congress (ANC) have been fighting over the running of the city, prompting the provincial government to put the metro under administration. While the decision was being challenged in court, the city spent months without a mayor, council or a permanent city manager. Interim DA leader John Steenhuisen says the ruling is a win for democracy. Steenhuisen has called on Gauteng Premier David Makhura to fire Maile for undermining the democratic will of the people and not respecting the outcomes of the ballot box. The party also says they are in talks with other parties represented in the metro to chart a way forward in finally electing a new Mayor.