Minister of Health Zweli Mkhize has emphasised that South Africa remains at a risk of a resurgence of the coronavirus pandemic. Mkhize, who is on quarantine after testing positive for the virus last week, says the country’s epidemiological reports show a 9.1% increase in new cases over the last seven days. There has been an increase of 10.7% in the last 14 days. The Minister is concerned about a marked increase in the number of new cases in the Western Cape. “The Province recorded a 42% increase in new infections. According to our resurgence plan, we define this significant spike in new cases in the Western Cape as resurgence. The Western Cape Provincial Health Department has identified specific clusters that are responsible for the increase in cases, and has advised that each of these clusters has been investigated and detailed outbreak response is being mounted.” The biggest cluster outbreak has been identified to be in the Southern Sub-district in the Cape Metro. Mkhize has urged all provinces to be aware of such increases and has pleaded to South Africans to continue adhering to the health and safety regulations. “We must mention that the rate of new infections and deaths will inform the recommendations that the Health Department makes to the National Coronavirus Council. As we continue to monitor the development of a vaccine, the only weapon we possess as a country is our social behaviour and constant adherence to health protocols. All of us must take this responsibility and always encourage those around us. “ Meanwhile, Mkhize has thanked all those that sent him well wishes. Mkhize and his wife tested positive for the virus over the weekend:  He says they are doing well. “I wish to take this opportunity and appreciate all the well wishes that my wife and I have received from you, my fellow South Africans, colleagues, and friends from all over the world. I want to assure you that we are improving each day. I remain in quarantine at home, I am resting and recuperating with only a cough remaining from my previous symptoms. I’m also very pleased that my wife has been discharged from hospital today and will now be joining me for quarantine at home.”   