The OR Tambo Technical School has been officially opened at Nkantolo Village in Bizana in the Eastern Cape.  The provincial government has provided R40 million for the construction of a state-of-the-art school in the village where Tambo was born. The school has 430 learners, 14 teachers, and maths and science are the main subjects. Eastern Cape Premier Oscar Mabuyane and Education MEC Funde Gade unveiled a plaque at the new school in honour of the late Oliver Tambo. Oliver Reginald Tambo was born in Nkantolo Village outside Bizana in 1917. Tambo served as ANC President for 30 years. For many years Nkantolo has been without roads, water, electricity and schools. Tambo believed that education could change the world. Now Eastern Cape Premier Oscar Mabuyane says he is hopeful this school will produce more maths and science students from the Alfred Nzo District. “We are here to develop this area. It is actually in the context of our rural economic agenda to change people’s lives. You do not have to travel to towns and cities to get proper model schools that our kids must actually access. So, we’re happy as the provincial government with this contribution which has been built over a period of time.” Education MEC Fundile Gade says this new Technical High school will continue to add value and improve matric results in the province. “It will be imperative that our alignment of the curriculum responds to the national development plans so that education is relevant in terms of the production of the skills, and we have also made some analysis of the trial of the examination that have been written using the mother tongue, bilingual education and there are signs of positive output.” Communication Minister Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams says having computer labs in rural schools does not only narrow the digital divide but also provides learners with an opportunity to learn efficiently during the pandemic. Learners at OR Tambo Technical School say this state-of-the-art school has inspired them. “I feel so valued and special to be in this school of such a great icon and be inspired and independent. All we need to do is to go to computer labs and get information and the environment is very safe now.” Sports, Arts and Culture Minister Nathi Mthethwa was among the government officials who came to honour the struggle stalwart. Mthethwa believes the OR Tambo Garden of Remembrance will also attract tourists. The St Patricks Hospital in Mbizana will be also be renamed the OR Tambo General Hospital.