Deputy National Police Commissioner for Human Resources management, Lieutenant General Bonang Mgwenya has been granted R20 000 bail at the Palm Ridge Magistrate’s Court. Mgwenya is facing charges of corruption, fraud and money laundering for her alleged role in ensuring a contract to supply emergency warning equipment for the South African Police Service (SAPS) in 2017 went to Instrumentation for Traffic Law enforcement (Pty) Ltd – a company she had close ties with. She will be joined by 12 others, including senior SAPS officials, such as former acting national police commissioner, Khomotso Phalane. According to the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA), Mgwenya enjoyed a close relationship with the company’s owner, Vimpie Manthata. The group stands accused of colluding to ensure that the company was awarded a contract to install 1 550 police motor vehicles with warning lights at an inflated price. It’s believed that during the procurement process the accused ignored the competitive bidding process and committed SAPS to pay R191 million in favour of Manthata’s company in exchange for benefits they received from Manthata. It Is believed, R65 million was paid to the company. Payment of another R22 million was stopped as a direct result of the work of investigators from the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) who worked with SAPS and the Hawks. Among other benefits, Manthatha allegedly assisted Mgwenya with purchasing a BMW X5 by paying a contribution of R440 000 towards the purchase price and with negotiating a discount of more than R284 000. It is believed that these benefits had put Mgwenya in a position to apply for a loan of more than R255 000 to finance the purchase of the X5 that’s worth over a million rand. Mgwenya failed to disclose these benefits to her employer. State prosecutor Tilas Chabalala told the court that their investigation is complete and they are ready to begin with the trial. The matter has been postponed to the 16th of November. Deputy National Police Commissioner charged with corruption appears in court: 