The state has added another charge against the man linked to the killing of Cape Town top cop Charl Kinnear. The 39-year-old former rugby player, Zane Kilian is now also being charged with fraud. It relates to a false certificate presented by the defence, claiming that Kilian is a private investigator. Kilian is also charged with murder and the unlawful interception of communication in this case. Kinnear was gunned down outside his Bishop Lavis house last month. Kilian made brief appearances in the Bishop Lavis Magistrate’s Court before the matter was transferred to the Bellville Regional Court due to safety concerns.  Three days were set aside for the bail application but the proceedings were postponed to 27 November. “There’s been an arrangement for the bail application to be heard in the regional court 1.  The magistrate will only be available on the 27th of November. Also, the media application will be heard on that day. What one can also add is that there is the fourth charge against the accused – a charge of fraud which relates to a certificate which he submitted in court where he indicated that he was a private investigator. That document is not true,” says NPA Spokesperson, Eric Ntabazalila. Kilian is also expected to appear in the Cape Town Magistrate’s Court on a charge of conspiracy to commit murder. The incident relates to a shooting at the home of criminal lawyer William Booth in April this year. Booth escaped unharmed after gunmen shot at him. His lawyer, Eric Breyer, addressed the media outside the Bellville Regional Court after his bail application in the Kinnear matter was postponed. “(At) about six o’clock yesterday afternoon the accused was in his cell and was confronted by officials from the Hawks who added two further charges against him being one of conspiracy to commit murder against Mr. William Booth, the other one was a fraud charge pertaining to documents handed in. The defence team took a decision not to proceed with the bail application.” The state has already indicated that it will oppose bail in the Kinnear murder case. 