The lawyers representing Sekwetje Mahlamba and Sekola Matlaletsa in the murder trial of farm manager Brendin Horner, told the Senekal Magistrate’s Court that the murder charges against the two are baseless. Lawyers argued during the bail hearing for the two accused, saying they cannot be linked to the murder of Horner, who was found tied to a pole in an open space in Paul Roux in the Free State earlier this month. The lawyers told the court that the case against the accused was weak and that they should be given bail. In his testimony, Myburgh told the court that the release of the accused on bail will fuel unrest in Paul Roux and surrounding areas. Defence lawyer Machini Motloung argued that he trusts that the country’s law enforcement agencies will be able to maintain law and order. Senekal farm murder accused in court for bail application  Myburgh also testified that the release on bail of the suspects will put their lives in danger and they will interfere with witnesses. He said a witness in the case has also been threatened. The witnesses have alleged that the accused were at a tavern on Friday afternoon, the same day that Horner’s body was found. It was also previously revealed that clothes taken from Mahlamba had blood stains on them. Mahlamba said the blood was from a sheep he had slaughtered for a traditional feast in September. Police, however, followed up the lead and the person who hosted the feast said while she knew Mahlamba, he was not there and did not slaughter any animal for the feast. Strong police presence in Senekal as Horner’s murder accused appear in court  Horner’s murder has raised racial tensions in various Free State farming towns. Following his murder, angry farmers ran amok at the Senekal Magistrates’ Court demanding justice for Horner’s family. During the protest outside the court, the farmers overturned a police vehicle and set it alight. They wanted the police to hand over the murder suspects to them. Two people – a local business man and a farmer were arrested – but later released on bail. Judgement for Mahlamba and Matlaletsa bail hearing is expected to be delivered on Thursday.