Former Democratic Alliance (DA) chairperson in Gauteng John Moodey has joined Herman Mashaba’s Action SA party. The announcement was made by Mashaba during a media briefing in Sandton on Monday morning. “I am proud to welcome Mr John Moodey. John is a veteran civil servant who has dedicated his life to the service of the South African people. I know him to be someone of great integrity and someone who brings an immense following to ActionSA.” @HermanMashaba #ActionSA — ActionSA (@Action4SA) October 5, 2020  Moodey left the DA a few weeks ago saying he needed to venture into other avenues, after decades of being the DA leader in Gauteng. He said he cannot be part of an organisation that is comfortable with being the main opposition in the country. Following their first National Leadership Meeting, Mashaba says the party has decided to contest the local government elections in other provinces and not only in Gauteng. “We have appointed Doctor Makhosi Khoza as provincial chairperson in KwaZulu-Natal. Also, we have appointed Veitjie Mentor to be our chair in the Western Cape and Mr John Moodey to be chairperson here in Gauteng. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to make other appointments in the coming weeks and months. We have emerged from our meeting this weekend focused and energetic on our journey to provide South Africans with its first real alternative to the ANC.” BREAKING: We have responded to a growing call for #ActionSA to contest more municipalities in 2021. We can today announced that in addition to Joburg, Tshwane and Ekurhuleni, we are now officially considering: eThekwini,
Cape Town,
Mangaung,
Nelson Mandela Bay. pic.twitter.com/dwbmERlpc5 — ActionSA (@Action4SA) October 5, 2020  Moodey outlines details of the resignation Following his resignation, Moodey said that he no longer felt at home in the DA, which he says has been captured by a few individuals. Moodey said after throwing his name in the ring to contest the leadership of the party in the upcoming elective conference, he was confronted with various trumped-up charges, aimed at destroying his chances of success:  