Matric learners have just under two weeks before the final examination, but this week they had a final Life Orientation assessment and Computer Applications exam. Student organisation,  the Congress of South African Students (COSAS),  is concerned about this year’s matric examination, saying they should only focus on the material that was covered given the disruptions in schools caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. Spokesperson, Douglas Ngubeni, has called on the examiners to take these factors into consideration, failing which the organisation will take to the streets. “The Department of Basic Education must be soft with our learners because our learners did not invite COVID-19. The matric paper which they are going to sit for must not be difficult because we don’t want to find ourselves in a situation where come next year January we go to the streets and call for the progression of learners.” Meanwhile, matric learners who contract coronavirus in the next few weeks will only be able to write their final exams in June. The Department of Basic Education has postponed supplementary exams from March next year to June. Preparation Learners in grades 4 to 11 will write tests on what they have been taught, and for the first time school-based assessments will form up to 80% of the final mark. Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga said while it has been a difficult year, she has been impressed by how schools have stepped up. She says with her Director-General having visited a number of schools throughout the country, she is optimistic that this year’s matric learners will do well. “I think because of the crisis, you know the adrenalin when you feel there is a crisis and you put more energy.  DG says he is surprised at the level of commitment among learners and teachers and everybody. I am encouraged and hopeful that lots of them will make it. So, fortunately, we have moved exams from March to June so we will have enough time for six months to prepare those who would not have made it.” While matrics have just over 10 days to exams, other learners are also working on assessments and getting ready for tests at the end of the year.  A grade 11 learner in Diepsloot Lindokuhle says she is ready. “ We revise everyday things we have done that will come up.  They are training us,  I can say we are ready.” Those who contract the virus will need to provide proof in order to write in June:  