The South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) says it is working on improving its planning systems to ensure that the organisation is financially stable. This follows engagement between SABC management and Parliament’s Standing Committee on Public Accounts (Scopa). Scopa visited the public broadcaster’s head office in Auckland Park in Johannesburg to get first-hand information on the financial affairs of the organisation. The committee says there are discrepancies in the information provided by SABC management and the data in the company’s annual financial statement. In the video below, SABC management appeared before SCOPA:  SABC Group CEO Madoda Mxakwe says: “We certainly have to improve from a SCM point of view but at the same time we need to be mindful of continuing with business continuity. We are now working on improving our systems from a planning point of view.” “There’s consequence management and it’s interesting because we are being blamed for being very harsh on consequence management and I can give you an example. From July 2018 to date we have had over 256 disciplinary processes that link to some of the issues you have raised.” Meanwhile, SABC Group Executive for News and Current Affairs Phathiswa Magopeni earlier this week said the looming retrenchments at the public broadcaster cannot be avoided as the wage bill has to be reduced. This week, 13 employees who are believed to have been irregularly appointed were dismissed. The public broadcaster says they were appointed without following proper processes when former Chief Operating Officer Hlaudi Motsoeneng was at the helm of the organisation. The SABC is currently at loggerheads with workers’ representatives over its plans to retrench around 600 permanent staff members. The broadcaster says according to the Labour Relations Act, it is now at liberty to unilaterally implement the contemplated retrenchments after failed talks facilitated by the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation, and Arbitration (CCMA). 