The global war against COVID-19 is central to all developments, as a third of the world remains on lockdown in attempts to conquer it. A few industries stand to benefit by regarding this crisis as an opportunity. One of these is the technology space. In this series titled, COVID Tech, SABC News’ Tshepiso Moche reports on coronavirus-related tech developments in South Africa and globally. In this edition, Moche looks at the 2020 rAge Expo that will take place virtually in November. Organisers of the 2020 rAge Expo, South Africa’s annual video gaming, technology and geek culture exhibition, have announce that this year’s event will be hosted virtually. For over a decade, the rAge Expo has brought people together for almost two decades and this will be the first time that fans will have to sit at home and enjoy the show indoors. The coronavirus pandemic has forced organisers to host this year’s event virtually instead of hosting the much loved event at the TicketPro Dome in Johannesburg as per its tradition. The rAge expo is one of South Africa’s top gaming events. In 2019, South Africa was the second-largest gaming market in the continent while Egypt remains at the top. The good news is that anyone will be allowed to attend the expo online for free.  In 2019, a Day Pass was R160 while a weekend Pass R320. However, people who want to attend the expo, will have book their tickets by heading over to the expo website. People will also be able to participate in special events, competitions and giveaways. Founder and Project Manager of rAge, Michael James, says the pandemic has forced them to do things differently this time around. “We believe we’ve created a unique virtual experience that might not be what you’ve come to love and enjoy about a physical rAge Expo, but we hope it will keep you going until we can all connect with each other again in person,” adds James. Normally, the expo sees hundreds and thousands of computer games fanatics and tech geeks from across the country gathering under the same roof. People can look forward to 3 days of fun and interactive streamed content that they can pick and choose from the comfort of their homes. “rAge Digital Edition takes place from 6-8 November 2020. And while it may not be quite the same experience fans are used to, it’s different – hopefully good different. It’s our 18th birthday so we would love for you to join us as we celebrate all our favourite things about gaming,” explains James. In 2019, 35 615 people attended the event. 