Another farm attack has been reported in the Free State. Thirty-one-year-old Andries Myburgh was attacked at his farm in Koffiefontein, near Bloemfontein. Police spokesperson Motantsi Makhele says Myburgh was having lunch when he smelled something burning outside. When he went to investigate he was hit on the head with an object. Makhele says one of the attackers stabbed Myburgh with a knife and another doused him with petrol and set him alight. “The victim managed to pull his firearm and the suspect fled. He fired a number of shots in the direction of the suspects and whilst firing he realized that he’s on fire and he jumped into the swimming pool. The two suspects fled on foot. ” “The complainant alerted the police and neighbours. One suspect was identified as big approximately two metres tall. Wearing green overall trousers and a light blue shirt. The other one had a blue overall suit. Both suspects are unknown to the complaint,” he adds. “The complaint had no serious injuries and was attended by medical personnel. Anyone with information is requested to phone the police at crime stop number 08600 10111 or report [the matter] at the nearest police station,” explains Makhele. In the video below, a farm attack case has been postponed at Bronkhorstspruit court:  Last week, farmers in the Free State called for the return of the death penalty. The calls follow the murder of 21-year-old farm manager Brandon Horner in Paul Roux. He was found with a rope around his neck and tied to a pole. Two suspects charged with his murder made a brief appearance in the Senekal Magistrate’s Court. In the video below, farmers in the Free State call for the return of the death penalty:  Meanwhile, the Senekal Magistrate’s Court in the Free State has denied bail to 51-year-old Andre Pienaar who is facing charges of attempted murder, malicious damage to property, and public violence. The matter has been remanded until November 20 for further investigations. Pienaar was arrested last week, following violence in which a group of farmers stormed the court building to demand that two suspects charged with the murder of 21-year-old farm manager Brendin Horner be handed over to them.