ActionSA has given the Independent Electoral Commission (IEC) seven days to sort out the challenge of registering the party in preparation for the 2021 local government elections. The IEC has rejected the party’s application, saying the logo looks the same as that of an already existing party, the Party of Action (POA); among other reasons. IEC rejects ActionSA application for registration as a political party:  ActionSA leader, Herman Mashaba says they have 21 days to appeal the IEC decision. “We are confused. We have already written them two letters to tell us ‘what is it that informed your decision?’ Because we have to prepare our appeal, we have to appeal; we are going to the highest court to deal with this matter. ‘Please inform us of what informed your decision. You write us an official letter if you hope that you took this decision based on legitimate reasons. Unfortunately, we are still waiting for them. We’ve given them seven days to get back at us. ActionSA to contest LGE in all provinces ActionSA has announced that it will contest the local government elections in all parts of the country in 2021. This is after the party had initially said it would only focus on Gauteng, in the hope of winning the Ekurhuleni, Tshwane and Johannesburg Metro Municipalities. Party leader, Herman Mashaba, says the appointment of John Moodey as Gauteng leader, Doctor Makhosi Khosa as KwaZulu-Natal leader, and Vytjie Mentor as Provincial Chairperson in the Western Cape, means the party is growing across South Africa. “We have appointed Doctor Makhosi Khoza as Provincial Chairperson in KwaZulu-Natal. Also we have appointed Veitjie Mentor to be our Chair in the Western Cape and Mr John Moodey to be Chairperson here in Gauteng. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to make other appointments in the coming weeks and months. We have emerged from our meeting this weekend focused and energetic on our journey to provide South Africans with its first real alternative to the ANC.” ActionSA says it will prioritise the fight against gender-based violence and will also make sure that the country’s borders are secured in order to prevent lawlessness. Former DA Chairperson John Moodey joins Herman Mashaba’s ActionSA party: 