Police Minister Bheki Cele says officers are fully prepared for any eventuality at the Senekal Magistrate’s Court in the Free State on Friday. His statement comes as the family community threatens more chaos should Sekwetje Mahlamba and Sekola Matlaletsa be granted bail. The two are accused of the murder of farm manager Brendin Horner. They were arrested two weeks ago after Horner’s body was found tied to a pole on the De Rots farm. Cele says police will ensure that people protest responsibly. “It would be really foolish for the police to say people have no right to come there. That right is in the constitution and it goes with responsibilities. There are few things that should be taken into consideration. People should know that as they will be marching, they should not interfere [destroy] the property. You don’t destroy property, you don’t injure people you don’t march armed,” explains Cele. In the video below, Senekal community holds prayer meeting following violent protests:  Meanwhile, the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) says it will march to Senekal to protect the state property.  #EFFinSenekal Good morning Beautiful Fighters it’s on#EFFRedFriday pic.twitter.com/yiiScJZsFC — Battalion 54 (@54Battalion) October 16, 2020  Free State EFF chairperson is Mandisa Makesini says, “We want people to come in their numbers to ensure that we protect democracy. We want to tell the white people [that] this is not your country and we are not going to allow them to undermine democracy.”  #EFFinSenekal Fighters are responding  pic.twitter.com/wBkEQNbain — Battalion 54 (@54Battalion) October 16, 2020  Meanwhile, Agri SA has urged farmers and the community to act within the confines of the law if they decide to attend the court case of two murder accused in the Senekal Magistrate’s Court on Friday. Agri SA Executive Director Christo van der Rheede says the rule of the law must be respected. “Agri SA is really concerned about high levels of crime in the country. We understand the frustrations and anger of our people because many of us have been direct victims of crime in this country, but we must respect the law.” “We cannot take the law into our own hands. We need to give the necessary respect or give the necessary room to the Bradin Horner family,” adds Van der Rheede.