The investigating officer in the case of rape against a Mpumalanga African National Congress (ANC) Provincial Executive Committee member and his stepson says the accused might interfere with the investigation should they be released on bail. Solomon Mbokodo was cross-examined by both the state and the defence during the appearance of the two suspects in the Nelspruit Magistrate’s Court in Mbombela. During the appearance of the two suspects in court, Mbokodo revealed that the eight-year-old victims, who are biological daughters of the accused ANC member, were taken to a place of safety in July. He claims that the suspect and his wife interfered with the process of moving the children to the place of safety. He also claims that social workers were threatened by the wife of the accused and also the biological mother of the victims. Mbokodo further told the court that according to the doctor’s report the private parts of the girls had visible injuries and they were in the process of healing. He also says DNA samples were not taken because 72 hours had already lapsed when they were taken to the doctor. A group of people, some wearing ANC regalia, are demanding that the suspects be released on bail. “We want the court to give him bail so that we go home with him. We know that this is a political motivated case; we know that as Mpumalanga we are busy fighting on who must lead the province. So unfortunately he is from Matsulu and as Matsulu we are being sidelined. He is our leader, he must be freed, and we are united.” Meanwhile, the Economic Freedom Fighters Deputy Secretary-General Poppy Mailola lead a group of members who are saying the suspects should not be granted bail. “We don’t want him to be given bail at all and that would be a high level of ill-discipline in this country. It would clearly indicate that men can do whatever that they want in this country and because he might have influence because of power then he will be able to influence the decision inside the courtroom.” The case will continue tomorrow for the continuation of the bail application.