The KwaZulu-Natal Department of Transport is currently investigating the cause of a collision between a minibus and a truck on the R66 between Ulundi and Melmoth in the northern part of the province. Thirteen people were killed and four others critically injured in the collision which happened on Wednesday morning.  Our hearts and prayers to the families affected by the terrible accident oLundi #ulundi #accident #KZNTraffic pic.twitter.com/MpEazHJsgj — Number 1 Tsotsi (@SimthoDladla) October 21, 2020  It is the second major crash in the province this month. Two weeks ago 13 people from the same family were killed in a minibus taxi crash between Underberg and Bulwer near the southern Drakensberg.  Due to inclement weather and ongoing showers causing slippery and hazardous road conditions, motorists are advised to be extra cautious. May their souls rest in eternal Peace . Road Safety is our collective responsibility. We urge all motorists to obey the rules of the road pic.twitter.com/Pij2qCVknA — KZN Provincial Gov (@kzngov) October 21, 2020  KZN Department of Transport spokesperson Kwanele Ncalane says, “At this stage, we are still investigating the cause of the accident, but the reports we have received which are unconfirmed at this stage, suggest that there are 13 people who have lost their lives when a taxi collided with a truck and it caught fire.”  [BREAKING] According to reports just in, approx 13 People have tragically lost their lives in yet another fatal road accident in the province. This particular accident took place on the R66 between Ulundi & Melmoth, apparently between a minibus taxi & a truck. pic.twitter.com/AlisZD1v0P — KZN Provincial Gov (@kzngov) October 21, 2020  “However our teams are currently [investigating]. They are both from road traffic inspectorate municipality and South African Police Service. The MEC has also [sent] a high-level team from the province to visit the scene so that they are able to assist,”adds Ncalane. In the video below, KZN EMS spokesperson Robert McKenzie gives more details about the accident: 