Three police officers who are accused of stealing R2.2 million while they were searching a home, have been granted bail in the Durban Regional Court. The officers and two other people went to a home in Molweni west of Durban last year to look for an illegal firearm. They allegedly found the money while searching the house and took it without issuing a receipt. In affidavits handed in at the regional court, all three accused say they intend pleading not guilty. The accused are crime intelligence unit Sergeant Phumlani Mkhize, Mpumelelo Mthalane and Sifiso Phungula from the K9 units in Pinetown. Mkhize and Phungula were granted R5000 bail each while Mthalane’s bail was fixed at R30 000. The State did not oppose bail. The Hawks are still looking for two other suspects in this matter. The case has been adjourned to December 10 for further investigation. Police on the wrong side of the law In June, eight police officers, among them high-ranking officials, a former general and six private citizens were arrested for alleged fraud and corruption relating to the marking of police vehicles. In the investigation that has been on-going since 2017, the suspects also face charges of theft and money-laundering. The video below is on the eight police officers who were arrested for alleged fraud and corruption:  Also, former KwaZulu-Natal police Commissioner, Mammonye Ngobeni, and former police Captain, Ashwin Narainparshad, have been granted bail of R20 000 and R10 000, respectively at the Durban Magistrate’s Court. The pair handed themselves over at the court on Monday morning. They now join Durban businessman Thoshan Panday and former police Colonel, Navin Madhoe, in facing fraud charges related to alleged tender fraud regarding 2010 Soccer World Cup accommodation for police officers. The former KwaZulu-Natal top cop handed herself in, three days after police sounded the call for them to do so. She appeared calm in the dock. Last week, Panday and Madhoe were released on R100 000 and R10 000 bail, respectively. The video below is on Ngobeni and Narainparshad’s court appearance: 