The Interim Provincial Committee of the African National Congress (ANC) in the North West is envisaging a motion of no confidence against its leaders in five municipalities recalled in September by the party. This is after some of these leaders refused to adhere to the instruction of the party to vacate municipal offices. Community members say these leaders presided over municipalities that could not deliver services. The Interim Provincial Committee in the North West has recalled mayors, speakers and chief whips of municipalities. Those affected include Dr Ruth Segomotsi Mompati, Ditsobotla, Maquassie Hills and City of Matlosana municipalities. Poor service delivery and instability have been highlighted within these municipalities. Scores of the residents in Vryburg staged a picket in Dr Ruth Segomotsi Mompati District Municipality on Thursday, demanding better services. They say a shortage of water is the order of the day. They demand that the troika of the municipality excuse themselves from their duties as instructed by the party. In this video below, ANC in North West changes Mayors, Speakers and Chief Whips of five municipalities:  Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) in the region says political infightings in the municipality affect service delivery. EFF says the ANC serves no purpose to the community. EFF Secretary in the Dr Ruth Segomotsi Mompati District, Justice Dabampe, says, “Ours is to remove the ANC from power, not certain individuals. At the end of the day, those individuals are still coming from the ANC.” The Democratic Alliance (DA) Freddy Sonakile says replacing one ANC deployee with another will not bring any positive change in affected municipalities. DA MPL Freddy Sonakile says, “As the DA in the North West, we will not involve ourselves in the factional horse trading in the municipal councils that are affected by the ANC IPC recall of the troikas, especially around Dr Ruth Segomotsi Mompati.” Meanwhile, the IPC of the ANC in the province says it will commence with the motion of no confidence against defiant troikas. ANC Spokesperson in North West Kenny Morolong says, “We have instructed our different caucuses where members or employees of the ANC have not resigned to commence a process of motions of no confidence. It should be passed on these deployees and majority of councillors deployed by the ANC. It will be concluded by next week. We expect some of the municipalities to have sat by next week.” The IPC says only seven out of 15 recalled members of the party heeded a call to step down at their respective municipalities.