Free State Umbrella Fire Protection Association says strong winds have reignited the veld fire that was contained in the Northern Cape. The fire started on Sunday in Hertzogville allegedly by violent protestors and spread to the Northern Cape province. General manager Johan Breytenbach says on Thursday afternoon strong wind conditions drove the fire into the Free State area. Breytenbach says the fire spread rapidly over a large area of the Free State. “There was definitely extensive damage, the size and scope of the fire Thursday night is going to be ascertained with spot aircraft going up right now to ascertain the scope and the extent of the fire. It was a very serious fire that spread very rapidly. The first thunderstorm was followed by the second thunderstorm that made the conditions very seriously, extensive fire will definitely damage property and livestock. It was a very serious fire over a quite large area.” Livestock Farmers in the Free State have lost over R2 million worth of livestock due to veld fires. About 50 000 hectares have been affected. One farmer is fighting for his life in hospital from burnt wounds. Government says it will provide with all the necessary assistance. #sabcnews#sabcfs pic.twitter.com/1PNlTQMJZb — Aphumelele Mdlalane (@AphumeleleMdla2) October 21, 2020  It’s alleged that the fire started on Sunday by angry residents in Hertzorgville. Over two million rand worth live stock have been lost.#sabcnews#sabcfs pic.twitter.com/5xZXtrGx7b — Aphumelele Mdlalane (@AphumeleleMdla2) October 21, 2020  Veld fires being contained in Boshoff and Hertzorgville in the FS. Officials say due to weather conditions there’s hotspots where fire is likely to reignite. Farmers have lost live tock, fodder and some structures affected.#sabcnews#sabcfs pic.twitter.com/0FtM8TzMNl — Aphumelele Mdlalane (@AphumeleleMdla2) October 21, 2020  On Wednesday, the Portfolio Committee on Agriculture called on the Minister of Agriculture, Land Reform and Rural Development, Thoko Didiza, to declare the areas in the Free State and Northern Cape affected by the huge and widespread veld fires disaster areas.