Gauteng Community Safety MEC Faith Mazibuko has launched the Gender-Based Violence (GBV) Brigades in Soweto. It is part of the province’s response to violence against women and children. Mazibuko’s spokesperson Pinkie Numa says this will help them to reduce gender-based violence in communities. “The GBV brigades are expected to be in the frontline in the fight against gender-based violence. Working in their wards visiting households and create awareness on the impact of GBV. They will assist law enforcement to ensure that there is a reduction in GBV.” “We are ready as the force multiplier in the fight against crime to be with gender based violence brigades in fighting the scourge,”said Lucky Mbonambi,Community Police Forum Chairperson based in Moroka Police Station. #GBVBrigadesLaunch pic.twitter.com/n9Sak49HTZ — GP Community Safety (@GP_CommSafety) October 31, 2020  “We are going out to houses to ensure that all elements of gender-based violence are detected and reported to the authorities within our respective communities,” said Women As Safety Promoters, Ms Maria Ramatsie. #GBVBrigadesLaunch pic.twitter.com/ZIJN4dQU9V — GP Community Safety (@GP_CommSafety) October 31, 2020  “We have a problem with sexual assault cases perpetrated mainly by young people,” said Moroka Police Station, Lieutenant Colonel Ngubane. #GBVBrigadesLaunch pic.twitter.com/4Qy3yuqhBz — GP Community Safety (@GP_CommSafety) October 31, 2020  Meanwhile, victims of GBV who died in the past month in Polokwane in Limpopo and other parts were recently remembered during a balloon send-off ceremony. The organisation against GBV, Women Taking Back Safety, gathered in Boom street in the CBD to speak out against the killing of women. Polokwane has recorded a number of violent murders of women recently, including businesswomen, Makoena Mabusela- Leshabane, Tebogo Mphuti, Lizette and Heatie Deacon. Convenor of the organisation, Mabotse Mothiba, says far too many women have died. “As we remember the lives of Makoena, Phuti, Joyce, and many other women that lost their lives at the hands of men. It has been a crazy month in Polokwane. It has been very sad. We have lost women of substance, we have lost women who were going to make sure that our economy grows. We have lost business-minded women at the hands of men. What have we done to you to deserve to die like this?”