Democrat Joe Biden renewed his criticism of President Donald Trump’s handling of the coronavirus pandemic at Thursday’s (October 22) final debate before a Nov. 3 U.S. election, while Trump leveled unfounded corruption accusations at Biden and his family. The Republican Trump adopted a far more restrained tone than he did during their first presidential debate in September, which was quickly derailed by his constant interruptions and personal insults from both men. The televised encounter in Nashville, Tennessee, represented one of the Republican Trump’s last remaining opportunities to reshape a campaign dominated by a pandemic that has killed more than 221 000 people in the United States. Donald Trump and Joe Biden’s final presidential debate https://t.co/gbd3UJLxTY — Reuters (@Reuters) October 23, 2020  Opinion polls show Trump is trailing Biden, though the contest is tighter in some battleground states likely to decide the election. Trump repeated his accusations that Biden and his son Hunter engaged in unethical practices in China and Ukraine. No evidence has been verified to support the allegations, and Biden called them false and discredited. Trump’s effort to uncover dirt on Hunter Biden’s Ukraine business ties led to the president’s impeachment:  The president and his children have been accused of conflicts of interest of their own since he entered the White House in 2017, most involving the family’s international real estate and hotel businesses. President Trump says vaccine could be available in a few weeks, says turning he corner on COVID19, rounding the corner.#sabcnews #Debates2020 — Sherwin Bryce-Pease (@sherwiebp) October 23, 2020  Biden defended his family and said unequivocally that he had never made “a single penny” from a foreign country, before pivoting to accuse Trump of trying to distract Americans. “There’s a reason why he’s bringing up all this malarkey,” Biden said, looking directly into the camera. “It’s not about his family and my family. It’s about your family, and your family’s hurting badly.”