Gauteng Premier David Makhura has fired Dr Bandile Masuku from his position as Health MEC following allegations of corruption. Presidential spokesperson, Khusela Diko, health MEC Bandile Masuku and his wife – Johannesburg MMC, Loyiso Masuku – were placed on leave in July following a controversial multi-million rand personal protective equipment (PPE) tender scandal.  On Friday, 2 October 2020, I received another updated report from the Special Investigating Unit (SIU) pertaining to the role of the MEC for Health, Dr. Bandile Masuku, who was placed on special leave in July 2020. — David Makhura (@David_Makhura) October 9, 2020  An Special Investigating Unit (SIU) investigation has found that Masuku had failed to execute his function in compliance with the constitution and public financial act.  Based on the SIU’s findings and recommendation thereof, the course of administrative action I’m taking is to discharge Dr. Bandile Masuku from his responsibilities as the MEC for Health. — David Makhura (@David_Makhura) October 9, 2020  Makhura addressed the media in Johannesburg. “The SIU has found that the Health MEC, Bandile Masuku, has failed to execute his function in compliance with the constitution and public finance management act. Based on the finding where they say that the MEC has failed to execute his functions in compliance with the constitution and the PFMA. I have decided to discharge Dr Bandile Masuku from his responsibilities as the Gauteng MEC for Health,” adds Makhura. In the video below, Premier David Makhura announces Health MEC’s SIU report outcome:  Masuku denies involvement in COVID-19 PPE tender corruption Meanwhile, Masuku has denied involvement in alleged COVID-19 personal protective equipment (PPEs) tender irregularities. He has refuted the allegations as unfounded saying the awarding of contracts within the department rests with the Supply Chain Management in the Finance department. In July, Masuku said, if evidence of corruption is found at his department action will be taken and offenders prosecuted. The MEC has also refuted any suggestion that COVID-19 procurement is being used as a means to raise funds ahead of African National Congress (ANC) conferences.