The cumulative number of  COVID-19 cases in South Africa has increased to 719 714 with 1 863 new cases. In a statement, the Department of Health has also reported 58 COVID-19 related deaths. “Eighteen from Eastern Cape; two from Gauteng; three from the Free State; 12 from KwaZulu Natal; seven from Limpopo; six from Northern Cape; and 10 from Western Cape.” This brings the total number of COVID-19 related deaths to 19 111. “Of the 58 deaths reported today, 16 were reported to have occurred in the past 24-48 hours: One from the Free State, two  from Eastern Cape, two from Gauteng, two from KwaZulu- Natal, two from Limpopo and seven in the Western Cape,” reads the statement in part. The recoveries now stand at 648 654 which translates to a 90% recovery rate. As of today, the total number of confirmed #COVID19 cases is  719 714, the total number of deaths is 19 111 and the total number of recoveries is 648 654. pic.twitter.com/At859oLmJD — Dr Zweli Mkhize (@DrZweliMkhize) October 28, 2020  Lockdown

Yesterday, President Cyril Ramaphosa dismissed reports that South Africa will be moving to a higher level of lockdown. The country is currently under Alert Leve One. Ramaphosa has urged South Africans to abide by regulations. The president is currently under self-quarantine following the positive COVID-19 diagnosis of a guest at a dinner he attended. Despite Police Minister Bheki Cele raiding a Sandton club over the weekend, it’s business as usual for most night clubs and restaurants in Johannesburg. Social distancing is not being observed and establishments are packed to capacity with partygoers having fun without their masks on. The Health Department says this is a call for concern. One partygoer says as much as she loves socialising, she’s afraid this could make matters worse. “People just don’t wear masks. They just put it at the door and once they are inside they remove them. I’m so scared because coronavirus is not gone.” However, another patron has a different view. “It’s not easy to expect people to wear masks all the time. It’s impossible because we were not designed to wear masks. Also, when we go to restaurants to eat we have to remove them. And same applies to when we go drinking. How do we drink with our masks on? I just think the government was to quick to open these places.” Social establishments not complying with lockdown regulations warned: