Home Affairs Minister Dr Aaron Motsoaledi has reiterated that travellers coming to South Africa from across the continent are required to observe safety protocols to help slow the spread of COVID-19. Motsoaledi says business and leisure travellers from the African continent will be allowed in the country. He says, “They have to bring a test which is less than 72 hours old before the time of departure. We are open to Africa, provided they observe certain COVID-19 protocols and visitors coming to the country need to make those arrangements.” International Relations Minister Naledi Pandor says: “Travellers from all African countries are allowed and must possess relevant travel documents, and will also be screened for COVID-19 symptoms. “To allow ease of travel from the African countries, 18 borders will be opened.” South Africa has moved to open its borders and allow international travellers Thursday. Travellers from the US, the UK, India, Russia, Switzerland, the Netherlands and France are among those that will not be allowed to visit South Africa. International travel ban lifted for all African countries  Sea port operations To facilitate the ease of transportation of goods and medicines to and from the country, ships will be allowed to dock, load and off-load cargo. Crew members from the cargo ships will be allowed to crew changes. These crew members will also be medically screened for COVID-19 symptoms. Passenger liners for luxury travel are still not allowed to dock and off-load passengers. “We want to appeal to all travellers and tourists for cooperation and increased vigilance in observing all the health and hygiene protocols we have announced today so that we stop the spread of COVID-19. Even though we celebrate the reduced numbers of infections, there is still no vaccine to the virus. We should continue to protect ourselves and those who are close to us from the devastating effects of this pandemic. We call on international travellers to enjoy the diverse tourist attractions of this country and to meet our friendly hospitable people,” says the Minister. “He further announced that on 1 October 2020 South African borders will be opened for business and leisure travel for international traveller’s subject to a number of restrictions for travellers.” – Minister Pandor #Level1 pic.twitter.com/dXfiEN8T8O — South African Government (@GovernmentZA) September 30, 2020 