United States President Donald Trump sought to make a triumphant made-for-television return to the White House last night with a message for Americans not to be afraid of COVID-19 despite it claiming more than 210 000 lives in the country. Trump was discharged from the Walter Reed Medical facility and returned to 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue where he will continue his recovery after doctors indicated he was still not out of the woods. Still infected with the coronavirus, the President made a dramatic arrival on Marine One, walked up a staircase on the Southside of the White House where he removed his mask for what appeared to be a campaign photo op. A surreal moment. After spending the last three days in hospital, the President attempting to portray strength by walking up the South Portico staircase; then turning for the camera, removing his mask, saluting the military helicopter as it again took flight. He then entered the White House unmasked where he spent time near a group of people during what appeared to be the production of a number of videos later posted on Twitter. “I just left Walter Reed Medical Center, and it’s really something very special. The doctors, the nurses, the first responders and I learned so much about coronavirus. And one thing that’s for certain: Don’t let it dominate you. Don’t be afraid of it. You’re going to beat it. We have the best medical equipment. We have the best medicines all developed recently. And you’re going to beat it.” The President, who received experimental anti-viral therapies and continues to be administered a course of remdisivir and the steroid dexamethasone for lung support but lists mood changes and trouble sleeping as among its side effects, is now seeking to portray his infection as inevitable given his leadership responsibilities in the country. As the list of infected persons associated with the White House continues to grow images of the press briefing room being decontaminated are a testament to the growing concern, despite the downplaying from this President. “I’m going to be out front as your leader. I had to do that. I knew this danger to it, but I had to do it. I stood out front. I led. Nobody that’s a leader would not do what I did. And I know there’s a risk. There’s a danger, but that’s OK. And now I’m better. And maybe I’m immune. I don’t know. But don’t let it dominate your lives. Get out there. Be careful. We have the best medicines in the world. And it all happened very shortly. And they’re all getting approved and the vaccines are coming momentarily.” But his doctors say he’s not in the clear yet and have warned that day’s 7 to 10 in the course of the infection are the most important in high-risk individuals like the President. Trump’s physician Dr Sean Conley, “That’s why we all remain cautiously optimistic and on guard because we’re in a bit of uncharted territory when it comes to a patient that received the therapies he has so early in the course. So we’re looking to this weekend, if we can get through to Monday with him remaining the same or improving better yet, then we will all take that final sigh of relief. But as I said, 24/7 world-class medical care surrounding him down there. We’re not going to miss anything that we would have caught up here.” The doctor pointedly refusing to answers questions about when the President first became infected and whether his lungs have been damaged, sighting patient-doctor confidentiality. “Again, HIPPA kind of precludes me from going into too much depth on things that uh – I’m not at liberty to discuss. At some future point, maybe, but today, sorry. I think that’s it.” One month out from Election Day, his democratic rival Joe Biden who has stretched into a commanding national lead in all the latest polls, had this message. “I was glad to see the President speaking, recording videos over the weekend. Now that he’s busy tweeting campaign messages, I would ask him to do this: listen to the scientists. Support masks. Support a mask mandate nationwide, require a mask in every federal building and facility and interstate travel. Urge every governor and mayor to do the same. We know it saves lives.” And with the President feeling better, the urgency to get back onto the campaign trail will be something to watch closely.