Police say two women have died after being shot execution style while inside a luxury car at an industrial site in Polokwane, Limpopo. Police say the women from Midrand in Gauteng were with a property developer viewing buildings to buy when they were attacked. The two ladies arrived in Polokwane on Friday night and booked themselves in a lodging facility. On Saturday morning, they met a property agent, who took them to view few buildings. While at one building still in the car, three men approached them and without saying anything, opened the driver’s door and allegedly shot the two ladies dead. Provincial police spokesperson Motlafela Mojapel, says the three suspects then got into a getaway car which was waiting for them few metres away. “We have launched a manhunt for four suspects driving in a red sedan Hyundai. Apparently they came to this particular locality following that black Mercedes Benz with two occupants. They then went to that car and shot the driver and her passenger at point blank. They then left the scene, rushed to the vehicle that was parked there and drove towards that direction. Currently, we don’t know what is the motive of this particular incidents but we are making a strong follow up. We are following certain leads.” Police deny murder of women is rife in Polokwane Meanwhile, police have denied suggestions that the murder of women is rife in Polokwane. Three weeks ago, an 83-year-old pensioner was stabbed to death in her room at an old age home. In September, a woman and her daughter were also stabbed to death at their home. Mojapelo says the latest incident appears to be a hit. “We really can’t say this is rife because so far, what we can detect is that it appears to be a hit because nothing was taken from the vehicle; they just came and approached the vehicle and shot the occupants at point blank. We are not sure of the motive, but our investigations obviously are continuing so we will make a determination after we make arrests.” Police told the property agent who witness the incident not to speak to the media.