The National Chairperson of the African National Congress (ANC), Gwede Mantashe, has commended the law enforcement agencies for the arrests made of those accused of corruption. On the recent arrests of high profile politicians, he said everyone involved in corruption should face the law. However, he warned against associating corruption with a certain party. “If you give it a blanket description and say it’s ANC, you are basically punishing the ANC for having a broad membership base. The ANC says allow law enforcement agency to do their work; allow police to arrest; allow prosecution to prosecute and allow people to be arrested,” says Mantashe. Mantashe was speaking during a voter registration campaign in Klipspruit, Emalahleni in Mpumalanga. Klipspruit is an informal settlement at the Emalahleni Local Municipality plagued by poor basic service. Most of the houses are shacks with no basic services such as water and electricity. We are in Ward 18, Emalahleni, today to urge people to #RegisterToVote ahead of the nationwide by-elections to be held on the 11th of November 2020. Registering to Vote gives people the initial power to elect the government of their choice. pic.twitter.com/9K3VBJUTb0 — Gwede Mantashe (@GwedeMantashe1) October 3, 2020  The area attracts people from all over the country and foreign nationals in search of greener pastures in the coal mining town. Some have been staying in the area for more than 15 years. However, some residents claim that they are overlooked for RDP houses. They also say life is difficult without electricity and water. “We are pleading with the Minister to assist us with RDP houses, we have been waiting for houses for long. We have no water here the water tanks comes ones a week and we are too many,” says one resident. Mantashe says voter registration campaign encourages eligible voters to register and check their registration details in order to vote in the 96 municipal ward by-elections. The voter registration is in preparation of the nationwide by-elections to take place next weekend. Mantashe’s vote registering campaign in Emalahleni will end on Sunday.