The Congress of South African Trade Unions (Cosatu) in the North West is calling for the arrest of more of high-ranking government officials and politicians accused of involvement in corruption. The union, in conjunction with its affiliates and alliance partners including the South African Federation of Trade Unions, the National Education, Health and Allied Workers’ Union and South African National Civic Organization in the province are marching against issues such as corruption, gender-based violence and the exploitation of workers. The march, which started at the Montshia Stadium in Mahikeng is part of the nationwide strike organised by the labour federation. In the video below, SABC reporter Sellwane Khakhau is following the march in Mahikeng: Road disruptions In Johannesburg, the planned strike by labour unions, Cosatu and Saftu, is expected to affect a number of roads as the two labour federations join hands in organising a nationwide protest against job losses, gender-based violence and corruption. Spokesperson for the Johannesburg Metropolitan Police Department, Wayne Minnaar says, “Approximately 60 cars will leave Cosatu House in Braamfontein, and proceed into Harisson Street. It will turn right into Wolmarans Street, go left into Simmonds Street, turn right into Anderson Street, then right into Pixley Ka Sema Street. They will then go up Pixley Ka Sema Street, turn left into Rahima Moosa Street and hand over a second memorandum at the office of the Premier. Officers will be on duty to monitor the protest.” Below is the full interview with Wayne Minnaar:  Mpumalanga march Members of Cosatu-affiliated unions in Mpumalanga are marching form the Mbombela Stadium to the offices of the South African Local Government Association and Transnet to hand over memorandums of grievances. Cosatu will later hand over another memorandum to the provincial government. There is a large police presence to monitor the march. Cosatu Provincial Secretary Thabo Mokoena says they are also marching against the oppression of workers in the workplace and the abuse of women and children. Mokoena says, “The memorandum will be dealing with issues of corruption , issues of health and safety issues of collective bargaining  and we will subsequently end at the government complex which is river side government complex where we will handing a memorandum to the Premier of the Province in which we will raising issues of corruption and issues health of health safety , collective bargaining, those are issues we will be raising.” No disruptions to businesses Businesses in and around Pretoria are operating without any disruptions as Cosatu and Saftu embark on a nationwide strike. There were fears of a shutdown as a result of the nationwide that the two labour federations have organised over issues including unemployment and corruption. Schools and public transport have also not been affected. Workers who are participating in the strike in Pretoria are expected to hand over a memorandum of demands to the Labour and Employment Department. In the video below, SABC’s Ofentse Setimo reports that there is a large turnout at the strike in Pretoria: