African National Congress Secretary General, Ace Magashule, says he believes that the recent developments in Nigeria will be amicably solved by the Nigerian government. He says peace in Africa will be brought and enhanced by Africans under the umbrella of the African Union, chaired by President Cyril Ramaphosa. Violent scenes, leaving many people dead in Nigeria have caused an international outcry and calls for the United Nations intervention. However Magashule says the African continent cannot continue to allow what he calls ‘western forces’ to intervene. “I’m sure the Nigerian government will resolve those issues, I mean people from that country will resolve those issues. Every country is independent, ours is to wish them best in trying to solve their own issues. I think this is where we should leave it, own issues for their own people to solve it.” Burned-out buildings and armed gangs in Lagos despite president’s plea Gangs armed with knives and sticks blocked major roads in Lagos on Friday, with many on the streets angered by a speech in which the president called for calm but failed to condemn the killing of protesters demanding an end to police brutality. The unrest is the worst street violence since Nigeria’s return to civilian rule in 1999 and the most serious political crisis confronting President Muhammadu Buhari, a former head of a military regime who came to power at the ballot box in 2015. A highway leading to the international airport was obstructed by blockades manned by groups of young men demanding cash from motorists. Petrol stations were closed and cash machines were not working in parts of the city. Violence in Nigeria’s sprawling commercial hub, a city of 20 million, has escalated since Tuesday night, when a round-the-clock curfew was announced. Amnesty International said soldiers and police killed at least 12 protesters on Tuesday in Lekki and Alausa, two Lagos districts. On Thursday, Amnesty, Human Rights Watch and 40 other groups demanded an immediate and thorough investigation of the incident. Protests against alleged police brutality in Nigeria have become even more bloody: 