The DA’s Natasha Mazzone says the party will lay charges against Finance Minister Tito Mboweni for what she says was is a lie about racial segregation at the Tygerberg Hospital. Mazzone says health professionals at Tygeberg have sacrificed all to save lives during the COVID-19 pandemic. Western Cape Health Minister Nomafrench Mbombo has also accused Mboweni of insulting healthworkers following his comments that wards at Tygerberg Hospital in Cape Town are still structured to allow for racial segregation. Mboweni made the comments during his Medium-Term Budget Policy Statement in parliament. Mbombo says Mboweni blatantly lied to distract the public from the shocking R10.5 billion bailout for SAA. She says Mboweni should apologise for misleading the National Assembly. Western Cape Health MEC Nomafrench Mbombo has questioned comments by Finance Minister Tito Mboweni that Tygerberg Hospital wards are still structured to allow for racial segregation. Mboweni made the comments during his Medium-Term Budget Speech. He said the hospital needed to be rebuilt. Mbombo says Mboweni should apologise for misleading the national assembly. Provincial Health Ministry Spokesperson, says, Nomawethu Sbukwana says, “She says the fake news has one objective in mind to detract from the ugly truth that the national government is going to pour another R10.5 five billion into the bailout of SAA. This will undermine the jobs, safety and millions of South Africans and the Western Cape government will have to pick up the tab. Minister has pointed out some simple truths about the Tygerberg Hospital which the Minister of Finance should have rather mentioned.” Minister Tito Mboweni delivers the Medium-Term Budget:  sabcnews.com | SABC News Channel | SABC Radio news #MTBPS2020  | HIGHLIGHTS Total consolidated spending R 6.2-trillion R12.6-billion R84-billion R1.2-trillion R978-billion R724-billion R500-billion Education Health Employment initiatives Debt-serving costs COVID-19 fiscal relief packages Social development sabcnews.com | SABC News Channel | SABC Radio news #MTBPS2020  | ﻿SOE's Land Bank  R 7-billion South African Airways R10.5-billion (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));