The South African National Civic Organization (Sanco) in Free State says it will not support councilors who are facing corruption charges in the upcoming municipal elections. The decision comes from the civic organisation’s provincial executive committee meeting held over the weekend. It was the first Provincial Executive Committee meeting after the death of the party’s provincial chairman, Lucky Phooko. Sanco spokesperson, Gift Poli, says they will also consult with relevant stakeholders for communities to get better services. “We are totally not happy because you’ll find that in other areas there is a shortage of water, electricity and then refuse removal. So, we are saying the municipalities must ensure that people are getting basic services because it is their right and we are going to ensure that we engage the South African Local Government Association (Salga), we engage relevant departments to ensure that our people are getting quality services.” Meanwhile, some members of the African National Congress (ANC) in the Free State alongside intended beneficiaries of failed multi-million rand government projects in the province which includes the asbestos and the Estina Dairy projects have arrived at the ANC headquarters, Luthuli House in Johannesburg. They are calling for the implementation of the resolutions of the 54th national elective conference of the party, with some saying ANC Secretary-General, Ace Magashule must be charged for the corruption he allegedly presided over in the Free State while he was still Premier. Free State ANC members march to Luthuli House to highlight plight of ordinary citizens: The group will deliver a memorandum of demands to the officials of the ANC’s National Working Committee. “Not even allegations. Those who are facing court proceedings due to corruption activities, they must step aside,” says one of the protesters.
“I want to emphatically say that SG of the ANC, given all the claims that have been done, he must step aside,” adds another.