All business and leisure travellers from the rest of the African continent will be allowed in South Africa from Thursday. This came out at a briefing of the National Command Council following the country moving to Alert Level One of the lockdown. According to the statement the decision to open up the country’s borders to Africa is in a bid to facilitate the free movement of people, goods and services from South Africa, SADC and the rest of the continent. The council also says leisure travellers from the US, the United Kingdom and France among others will not be allowed to visit South Africa. International Relations Minister Naledi Pandor says a testing certificate will be required from all travellers from the rest of the continent. “Travellers from all African countries are allowed and must possess relevant travel documents, and will also be screened for COVID-19 symptoms. To allow ease of travel from the African countries, 18 borders will be opened,” says Pandor. In the video below minister announces the easing of international travel restrictions  Sea port operations To facilitate the ease of transportation of goods and medicines to and from the country, ships will be allowed to dock, load and off-load cargo. Crew members from the cargo ships will be allowed to crew changes. These crew members will also be medically screened for COVID-19 symptoms. Passenger liners for luxury travel are still not allowed to dock and off-load passengers. “We want to appeal to all travellers and tourists for cooperation and increased vigilance in observing all the health and hygiene protocols we have announced today so that we stop the spread of COVID-19. Even though we celebrate the reduced numbers of infections, there is still no vaccine to the virus. We should continue to protect ourselves and those who are close to us from the devastating effects of this pandemic. We call on international travellers to enjoy the diverse tourist attractions of this country and to meet our friendly hospitable people,” says the Minister. 