Police Minister Bheki Cele has demanded the arrested of those responsible for the torching of a police vehicle at Senekal in the Free State. About 100 people stormed the local magistrate’s court where Sekwetje Mahlamba and Sekola Matlaletsa appeared briefly in connection with the murder of farm manager, Brendin Horner. Cele says some of the farmers were armed. The Minister says he cannot understand why the protesters directed their anger at police when two suspects had already been arrested in connection with the murder of Horner. The video below, is reporting about the appearance of the two suspects for the murder of a Free State farm manager:  He has appealed to people to exercise their right to protest within the confines of the law. In the video below, farmers in the Free State are calling for the return of the death penalty:  Social media reaction: People have condemned farmers who burnt police vehicle and caused havoc during the court appearance of the two suspects. Some have suggested that police would have fire rubber bullets at protesting community members if the protest took place in townships. The are urging police to act swiftly in arresting the perpetrators. A video of farmers attacking police vehicle have dominated social media platforms on Tuesday. Below are some the reactions:  No a policeman in sight, no rubber bullets. No nothing. pic.twitter.com/6cTxfj0ACX — tumi_mabote (@mabote_tumi) October 6, 2020   This really angers me, that white people got “white previledge” even in committing violence pic.twitter.com/TsLP0gBajZ — Senzo Sikhakhane (@SenzoSikhakhan5) October 6, 2020   “whites are very matured. You’ll never see them breaking and burning things during protests.” Whites: pic.twitter.com/ZVdC0WNBbZ — Papa Dintoe (@PappyLv) October 6, 2020   And there wa no rubber bullets to them. As they’re so highly respected in South Africa — Ally Phaladi (@ally_phaladi) October 6, 2020   @SAPoliceService must use all the available footage and arrest the thugs. — LAWRENCE (@LAWRENC25055815) October 6, 2020   Video 2 pic.twitter.com/KVoFy3Ccd2 — Yusuf Abramjee (@Abramjee) October 6, 2020 