President Cyril Ramaphosa says the taxi industry must work with government towards the sector’s formalisation and economic empowerment. Ramaphosa officiated the opening of the National Taxi Lekgotla which will encourage engagement with taxi stakeholders to debate and discuss how to create a safe and sustainable taxi industry. Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula will, over the next few days, lead the discussions in Gauteng. Ramaphosa was speaking in a virtual address. “We share a common aspiration to see the minibus taxi industry overcome its challenges, adapt in response to the demands of modern public transportation and ultimately to grow and thrive. At the heart of all our endeavours, is the formalisation, regulation and economic empowerment in the sector. This three-pronged strategy reflects the recommendations of the National Taxi Task Team set up in 1995 to look at challenges facing the industry.” Ramaphosa has called on the taxi industry to understand the need for professionalism among all stakeholders. “We must speak as one on the need for professionalism. This Lekgotla must be a turning point for an industry that is too often associated with disregard for the rule of law and the rules of the road, the abuse of customers and conflict. We must seriously and honestly confront associations of the taxi industry with sexism and GBV.” He has emphasised the importance of unity in the taxi industry, saying it is key to ensure the sector’s formalisation and economic empowerment. “We salute you for all you do keep our country going and we give you our assurance that we remain committed to doing whatever is necessary to bring the industry into the mainstream of our economy so that the service that you provide can be improved. As I have called on other sectors that are key to our economy, let us use this opportunity presented by COVID-19 to build our economy.” As I have called on other sectors that are key to our economy, let us use the opportunity presented by the #COVID19 crisis to build back better. With these words I wish you well in your deliberations over the next three days.#TaxiLekgotla https://t.co/3m8v6PAe98 — Cyril Ramaphosa  #StaySafe (@CyrilRamaphosa) October 29, 2020  I must thank the leadership of the taxi industry for continuing to work with Minister @MbalulaFikile as we try to ensure that the taxi industry is better positioned. I thank him for being courageous enough to want to take this industry to a higher level.https://t.co/NSIEHjvVF7 — Cyril Ramaphosa  #StaySafe (@CyrilRamaphosa) October 29, 2020  Below is the president’s full address: 