Western Cape Premier Alan Winde says the increase in the number of active COVID-19 cases in the province over the past two weeks, is predominantly driven by certain super-spreader events and clusters of infections. He made these comments in response to Health Minister Zweli Mkhize’s statement on Tuesday, that he was worried about increases in infections, with a specific mention of the Western Cape. Winde says the province has seen an increase of over 13% of new active cases in the past seven days, which is lower than the Health Department’s definition of a resurgence, which is an increase of more than 20%. The Western Cape currently has 3 177 active coronavirus infections with 106 643 recoveries. It has 4301 COVID-19 related deaths. Mkhize has emphasised that South Africa remains at a risk of a resurgence of the coronavirus pandemic. Mkhize, who is on quarantine after testing positive for the virus last week, says the country’s epidemiological reports show a 9.1% increase in new cases over the last seven days. There has been an increase of 10.7% in the last 14 days. The Minister is concerned about a marked increase in the number of new cases in the Western Cape. South Africa’s coronavirus related deaths rise to 18 741  “The Province recorded a 42% increase in new infections. According to our resurgence plan, we define this significant spike in new cases in the Western Cape as resurgence. The Western Cape Provincial Health Department has identified specific clusters that are responsible for the increase in cases, and has advised that each of these clusters has been investigated and detailed outbreak response is being mounted.” The biggest cluster outbreak has been identified to be in the Southern Sub-district in the Cape Metro. Mkhize has urged all provinces to be aware of such increases and has pleaded to South Africans to continue adhering to the health and safety regulations. “We must mention that the rate of new infections and deaths will inform the recommendations that the Health Department makes to the National Coronavirus Council. As we continue to monitor the development of a vaccine, the only weapon we possess as a country is our social behaviour and constant adherence to health protocols. All of us must take this responsibility and always encourage those around us.” We note the statement issued today by Health Minister @DrZweliMkhize in which he notes that some provinces are seeing increases in infections, with a specific mention of the Western Cape only. [THREAD] pic.twitter.com/N7T12i2a4D — Premier Alan Winde (@alanwinde) October 21, 2020  Mkhize statement: 