Former Bosasa Chief Operations Officer Angelo Agrizzi has now been moved to a private hospital after his health condition deteriorated. Agrizzi is facing corruption and bribery charges along the former African National Congress (ANC) Member of Parliament, Vincent Smith. He was denied bail in the Palm Ridge Specialised Commercial Crimes Court in Johannesburg and taken to jail. However, he was quickly moved to a government hospital ward and has now been moved to a private hospital. Correctional Services Spokesperson, Singabakho Nxumalo says this was a request from his doctor and his family. “All inmates are entitled to healthcare at the state expense except for treatment for cosmetic purpose. Inmates and remand detainees may be granted permission to be treated by private medical practitioners at their own cost and risk. The private hospital will, therefore, treat this remand detainee. He will still be guarded by officials and the associated cost will have to be paid by the remand detainee or the relevant family,” says Nxumalo. Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi denied bail:  Last week, Agrizzi’s lawyer, Daniel Wiltz confirmed that his client had tested negative for the coronavirus. Agrizzi had, at the time, spent a second day in hospital in Johannesburg, where his condition had been described as stable. He was admitted to hospital on Thursday, after spending one night in jail. Meanwhile, the fraud and corruption case of Agrizzi and co-accused, former Correctional Services Commissioner Linda Mti, former Chief Financial Officer Patrick Gillingham and former Bosasa Executive Andries van Tonder has been postponed to 26 November. The four face charges related to four tenders awarded to Bosasa and its subsidiaries valued at over R1.8 billion between the periods 2004 and 2007. The contracts included rendering of catering and training services, installation of CCTV cameras and fencing. The four were arrested early last year following a high profile investigation by the Correctional Service Department. The matter was postponed for further investigations as the prosecuting team is still negotiating issues of disclosure of some documents related to the case. Angelo Agrizzi in court: 