The African National Congress (ANC) Gauteng Provincial Executive Committee (PEC) has confirmed that former Health MEC Bandile Masuku and Presidency Spokesperson Khusela Diko will appear before the party’s provincial Disciplinary Committee (DC). The PEC briefed the media on its two-day special virtual meeting which took place on Tuesday and Wednesday. The meeting was held to conclude and determine the cause of action on the matters related to alleged corruption in the Personal Protective Equipment procurement at the Gauteng Health Department and the VBS saga. Gauteng ANC’s provincial treasurer, Parks Tau, said the PEC endorsed Premier David Makhura’s decision to remove Bandile Masuku as Health MEC, urging him to appoint Masuku’s replacement to stabilise the department. Tau added that the outcome of the DC will determine if both Masuku and Diko should continue in their PEC positions. “The PEC welcomed and unanimously supported the decision of Premier David Makhura to release comrade Bandile Masuku as MEC for Health. The PEC decided that comrade Bandile Masuku and comrade Khusela Diko should be referred to the provincial Disciplinary Committee of the ANC. The PEC further decided that comrade Bandile and comrade Khusela should step aside from organisational activities pending the finalisation of the DC process,” says Tau.  Tau said Masuku’s wife Loyiso Masuku will however return to her position as MMC in the City of Joburg and Deputy Regional Secretary of the party’s Johannesburg region. He said allegations of her involvement could not be substantiated. “The PEC report and the follow-up work done by the PWC found that allegations against comrade Loyiso Masuku in relation to her involvement in this regard could not be substantiated. Accordingly, the PEC decided that she should resume her responsibilities.” VBS issue On the VBS issue, the PEC’s Deputy Secretary-General, Nomantu Nkomo-Ralehoko said the PEC has suspended its decision pending the outcome of the NEC appeal process. The PEC had ordered the Chairperson of Parliament Communications Portfolio Committee, Boyce Maneli, and Merafong Mayor Maphefo Letsie-Mogale to resign after they were found to have failed to act against officials involved in the VBS saga. The two have appealed to the party’s NEC to have the PEC decision set aside “So, the PEC decided to accept the political council of the national office bearers and we await the outcome of the appeal and this is based on the full appreciation that an appeal on integrity matter has never been dealt with and it requires a national framework which is still going to be determined by the national structures of the ANC.” The PEC’s Deputy Chairperson Panyaza Lesufi said all the members affected on both matters have accepted the committee’s decision. “Any ANC member who’s found to be involved in the leaks will be dealt with harshly by the organisation. The PEC has mandated the office bearers to meet with comrades affected by its decision and the meeting took place this morning. These are people affected in terms of the VBS matters as well as the PPE matters. This morning we had an opportunity to meet with all these individuals and these affected comrades have welcomed the decision of the PEC.”