Women and children from Orange Farm, south of Johannesburg, live in daily fear of falling victim to gender-based violence. They shared this sentiment during the funeral service of Duduzile Ndlozi at the Orange Farm multipurpose hall, this morning. Earlier this month, the 26-year-old was stabbed multiple times, allegedly by her partner. Police are still searching for the suspect. Ndlozi’s body was found in a pool of blood in a house in Orange Farm this past weekend. Police say the circumstances surrounding her murder are under investigation, with the motive yet to be determined. In recent months, Orange Farm has witnessed several other murders. Last month, the bodies of a six-year-old boy and an eight-year-old girl were found in a veld. In June this year, the body of a three-year-old girl was also found in an open veld in the area. Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) Treasurer-General, Omphile Maotwe, who was speaking at Ndlozi’s funeral, says the situation in Orange Farm is unacceptable. “The community of Orange Farm, all the girls and women and the children who live their lives in constant fear of assault, rape, and murder. I come before you, I stand before you, with my knees failing to keep me standing. With my voice trembling in fear because this might be my last speech, this might be my last appearance here and you might see me again in a box just like Duduzile.” Residents concerned about the murders in the area:  Community lashes out at police The irate community also lashed out at police saying they are failing residents by not arresting suspects accused of gender-based violence.  Women in Motion’s Sophie Semo says the community has lost faith in the justice system. “Orange Farm SAPS, you are useless. You guys are failing us. I am very angry at you.” However, police say they are doing everything in their power to find Ndlozi’s killer. Gauteng police spokesperson Mathapelo Peters is calling on anyone with information about the suspect’s whereabouts to report it to the police. “A search is still under way for a suspect believed to be the boyfriend of a 26-year-old woman whose body was found on Saturday evening in a house in Orange Farm. At that point, evidence had indicated that the women had been stabbed multiple times by the boyfriend with a weapon that was found not far from the scene. Investigations are still under way. Police are appealing to the public to assist with the apprehension of the suspect.”