Police Minister Bheki Cele has highlighted the importance of government acting tough on the perpetrators of crime. He was speaking after the bail application of two murder suspects in the Senekal Magistrate’s Court in the Free State on Friday. Sekola Matlaletsa and Sekwetje Mahlamba are accused of the murder of 21-year-old Brendin Horner and their bail application has been postponed to Monday and Tuesday next week. Cele says the families of victims of crime deserve justice irrespective of their colour or creed. “We want justice across the board. It doesn’t matter where you died whether you were shot and killed in Mandeni taxi rank, Khayelitsha, Mamelodi as Jabu was killed on Monday, the chair of the taxi association. Whether a young man killed young Horner here, we must forever fight for justice.” In the video below Minister Cele speaks to SABC News  Tensions arose ahead of the appearance of the two murder suspects in court. Police managed to prevent a scuffle between the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) supporters and farmers. EFF leader Julius Malema says suggestions that criminals have been targeting farmers are a gross exaggeration. He was speaking outside the Senekal Magistrate’s Court in the Free State on Friday. Members of various political parties protested outside the court. Malema says it’s unfortunate that farm attacks have been racialised. “There is no farm murders in SA. There are no white farmers being killed in SA. In SA there are women being killed, there are children being killed. Those are the people who deserve our special attention, not the privileged white old racists who are unable to adjust to the new conditions because they are used to being called baas baas.” In the video below, EFF appeals to members to face racism head-on:  Meanwhile, the Freedom Front Plus (FF Plus) has lodged a complaint with the Human Rights Commission (HRC) against Julius Malema and the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) for singing “Kill the Boer” in Senekal. In the video below, farmers urge government to address farm murders: 