The trial against Economic Freedom Fighter leader Julius Malema and MP Mbuyiseni Ndlozi continues in the Randburg Magistrate’s Court on Thursday. On Wednesday, court proceedings were marred by a lot of drama, including the banning of the media from streaming the event live after a cellphone of one of the camera operators rung during court proceedings. State witness, Police Colonel Johannes Venter, took to the stand and detailed how he was assaulted by Ndlozi and Malema at the funeral of the late struggle icon Winnie Madikizela-Mandela in 2018. However, Malema and Ndlozi’s defence team told the court that Venter’s evidence was contradictory. Two more witnesses will take the stand, followed by both Malema and Ndlozi. Malema addressed his supporters outside court. “We must never be threatened by racists who are trying everything in their power to undermine the unstoppable revolution. So we’ll talk to you tomorrow (Thursday) and we want to thank you for coming out today (Wednesday) in your numbers, we know today it’s very hot here in Joburg.” “I was pushed” – Venter outlines details of alleged assault by Malema, Ndlozi The CCTV footage of the incident showing the alleged assault of Venter by Malema and Ndlozi was played at the Randburg Magistrate’s Court. Employed at the Presidential Protection Unit, Venter has told the court that both Ndlozi and Malema pushed him as he tried to explain that they can’t enter the cemetery using a vehicle, but only by foot. Here is the CCV footage of #malema and Ndlozi pushing Col Venter. You will decide if it warrant them to be in court today. pic.twitter.com/prNzWi6KXB — Chief Erican (@EricanSA) October 28, 2020  The case has drawn a lot of public interest with thousands of EFF members also picketing outside the court. The revolution and its leadership must be convincingly defended against any form of organised victimisation which wants to cast doubt of the strategic demands of the people! #HandsOffCIC pic.twitter.com/C1gKC87mEd — Economic Freedom Fighters (@EFFSouthAfrica) October 28, 2020   