The Freedom Front Plus (FF Plus) in the Western Cape says it’s gearing up for next year’s local government elections, with the aim of removing the ANC from areas in which it governs. The party has seen significant growth in last year’s national elections, nearly doubling its seats in Parliament. The Western Cape is governed by the Democratic Alliance (DA). FF Plus provincial leader, Corne Mulder, says the African National Congress (ANC) should no longer be allowed to govern any municipality because of its involvement in corruption and fraud. “We believe its important that the ANC is driven out of each and every position it holds in province…any position of government. We don’t need more ANC, the ANC has proven itself to corruption, cadre deployment, we believe that its important to get them out of the province. Foresee coalitions after elections and FF Plus intends to be part of those coalitions in best interest of our province.” Meanwhile, it remains unclear whether next year’s local government elections will take place or be postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. During its 7th anniversary celebrations, Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) reiterated its call for one election, adding that the 2021 local government elections should be postponed to 2024. The party is supported by the governing African National Congress (ANC) on the merging of local government and provincial and national elections. However, the Independent Electoral Commission (IEC) says they are preparing for next year’s polls which they expect to take place between August and November. During their presentation to the Parliament’s Portfolio Committee on Home Affairs last month, the IEC said that according to the constitution, local government elections in 2021 must be held between 4th of August and 1st November. The commission’s Deputy Chief Executive, Masego Shiburi says, “A term of a municipal council is prescribed for 5 years. So, any move that prolongs that term will have necessary corresponding implications on the legal scheme. On its part, the electoral commission is proceeding with preparations as though an election must be held between August and November 2021. If a decision is taken before then we will adjust our plans accordingly, but as we sit, we are preparing for an election that must be held between August and November 2021.”  